11000|You have a good head for numbers, and know how to make lines of supply work. You've made your life out of keeping books and turning those numbers into suggestions for people of noteworthy power, but have never yourself held much power.\n\nYour history with bookkeeping has given you a very good eye for detail, and this gives you proficiency with Perception and Investigation. Your lifetime around official documents and people of note has also taught you how systems and organizations move, which could serve as proficiency in Forgery if necessary.
11001|You have a history on the stage and know how to portray a character for an audience. Your life has had you exposed to the unusual subculture around the theatre, and set you into contact with people of all walks of life.\n\nYour performances and many interactions have given you skills in interacting with people, granting proficiency in Deception and Persuasion. Your many times having to work with costume to seem to be someone else allows proficiency with Disguise, as well.
11002|You have made a life of magic and materials, especially in the synthesis of materials. You've worked mostly in large centers of population for those who can afford your work, being a trade where materials to even start work are quite expensive.\n\nThe core concepts of your art require an understanding of the magic that drives it, granting proficiency with Arcana, and your need for patient observation and awareness of minutia allows proficiency with Investigation. Of course, the core of your trade is still Alchemy, with which you are also proficient.
11003|Your life has been dominated by caring for others, though done through distance and careful application of medicine. You have made your way through the diagnosis of illness and creating substances to treat the illness, or at least the symptoms.\n\nYour observation of the human body in its various problem states has given you proficiency with Medicine, and your need to gather from the wilds to produce treatments has given you proficiency with Nature. Your trade is ultimately driven toward producing the medicines, allowing proficiency in Herbalism.
11004|You've always had an eye for esthetics, and have turned that to a life of producing compositions meant to be beautiful. It is a tumultuous life, with many booms and busts, but usually enough to get by.\n\nYour many instances of having to manipulate fine details with unusual motions and high precision has given you proficiency with Investigation, and the curious side effect of skilled Sleight of Hand. Your proficiency has taught you most a proficiency with Painting, as most work is the decoration of things that already exist.
11005|Society has always told you that you don't have any useful skills, and it was never easy to hold down any kind of job. Maybe they were right, maybe they weren't, but you've gotten by through a pattern of just... taking things when people aren't looking.\n\nThe nature of your particular brand of unemployment has made you proficient in Stealth, to remain undetected, and Perception, both to find objects of interest and spot people who might thwart you. Your need to bypass various kinds of security has also made you proficient at Housebreaking.
11006|You're good with your hands, and good at turning that into work, especially when the material at hand comes from a plant. Furniture, doors, cabinets, sometimes even houses. There's always someone who needs something built, and it's made you a living.\n\nYour work is very physical, often involving carrying heavy loads and manipulating large and unwieldy objects to an end, and often requires the help of animals. This has given you proficiency with Athletics and Animal Handling, in addition to the obvious proficiency with Carpentry.
11007|You learned early on that making shoes is an unusually-specialized skill. People find their way to walking on all sorts of horrible things, and you keep their feet working as feet in spite of it.\n\nYou spend a lot of time carefully manipulating very tiny things to perform your trade, which serves as proficiency with Sleight of Hand and Investigation, and you are proficient at your trade of Cobbling.
11008|You know people. Or, more precisely, you know about all of the mistakes people make when they get greedy, and you're good at using that to turn hollow promises into tangible results.\n\nYour particular dealings with people has taught you to spin a yarn and learn when it's not working, granting proficiency at Deception and Insight. Your occasional need to add visual elements to your story has given you proficiency at Disguise.
11009|You know how to move your body, and especially how to move your body in visually-pleasing ways. There is often art and reflection behind those movements, but when you're being paid, there's some awareness that it's about how the performance looks.\n\nYour job demands a lot of fitness and precise movement of your body, which gives you proficiency at Athletics and Acrobatics, and your frequent need for presentation and costume has taught you a proficiency with Disguise.
11010|Like most people, you've made your way less by working with coin and more by working with the land. Markets and finished goods are nice, but usually out of reach, and for the most part you spend your time cultivating plants and animals with the intention of eating them later.\n\nYour familiarity with agriculture, and frequent need to forage anyway, has taught you much about flora and fauna, granting proficiency with Nature and Survival. Your common need to preserve the food that you produce has taught you proficiency with Brewing.
11011|You've spent most of your life on or near the water, and have mostly gotten food by capturing and eating aquatic animals. There's often coin made too, as many people are willing to buy fish, and a lingering stereotype of what a crass person you must be.\n\nYour frequent time on and in the water has taught you how to swim, and a habit of it has made you fit and proficient in Athletics. Your frequent need to improvise to get by and routine habit of gathering food from nature has given you proficiency with Survival. Your common need to do maintenance on seacraft and care for ropes and nets has taught you the workings of textiles, and thus proficiency in Weaving.
11012|Society has demanded that you make a life of managing a home, or you've chosen to do so freely, and so you've been making a life of doing every sort of job that doesn't directly make money.\n\nYou're often in the position to take care of other people, and the odd and diverse problems that can strike humans has taught you a proficiency with Medicine and Survival. You also have significant history managing the simple questions asked in homes, and this has given you practice and proficiency at Cooking.
11013|You've made your living by stalking and killing land animals, usually for food, but sometimes for hides, pelts, or trophies. This often leaves you separated from society for long times, though it seems to earn a fair amount of glory, especially when capturing a large or dangerous animal.\n\nYour history with stalking animals has taught you proficiency with Stealth, and your need to track some prey has given you proficiency with Survival. Your frequent need to turn the rawest ingredients into something edible in the wilds has also taught you proficiency with Cooking.
11014|You have made your living by working precious metals, usually into ornaments. This has lead to a life of mostly interacting with people who can afford luxuries, but doesn't make for an exceptional standard of living yourself.\n\nStill, your work has given you a good eye for detail, and thus proficiency with Investigation, and your need to keep a polite front while haggling has taught you skill at Persuasion, in addition to your proficiency with your trade.
11015|You do wet work. Usually, people of your trade are employed by a government or a powerful organization, and your role is to eliminate specific people, usually with the stipulation of minimizing noise and collateral.\n\nPracticing your trade has given you light feet, and from it proficiency with Stealth, as well as proficiency with Deception from talking your way into the right location, and your proficiency with Poisoning has helped you turn relatively-weak weapons into effective tools of your trade.
11016|People need rocks hauled, they need ditches dug, they need camp made and struck, and you've made your living being a strong back to such ends. A laborer's life is a difficult one, and usually not one with much respect, and few are surprised when they hear that one is willing to risk adventure for the chance at a better life.\n\nYour life has involved a lot of hard work, heavy weights, and precarious footing; survival has required that you become proficient in Athletics and Acrobatics, and you've had enough woodwork delegated to the laborers to have learned proficiency in Carpentry.
11017|The longest-lasting buildings are made of stone and brick, and you are skilled at building them. Stonework is a long and careful process, but the satisfaction of a finished job is something you know you can look at for the rest of your life.\n\nYour work has required the careful manipulation of many heavy objects and regularly enlisting the help of animals, granting proficiency at Athletics and Animal Handling, and your work in construction has taught you Masonry.
11018|You've made your living by getting the things that people want to the people who want them, or by convincing people that they are the people who want the things you have, usually both. Your trade is often called unsavory things, with the thought that you don't actually make anything, but it's easy enough to answer back that someone must feed the shortages of some parts from the excesses of others, and it might as well be you.\n\nMost of the skill of your trade comes to your interactions with a great variety of people, and the need to adapt to customs and read responses has taught you Persuasion and Insight. Your life has also taught you how to travel unknown lands, even when times are too hard to hire a guide, and this has taught you Navigation.
11019|Your life has been one always spent on the road, making coin by bringing messages and small objects to distant places faster than a wagon or an army can move. It has been a life of many brief encounters and little time for permanent attachment, with plenty of time to be familiar with the land.\n\nThe need to travel quickly has made you relatively fit, and granted proficiency with Athletics, and your many interactions with people of many walks of society has given you proficiency with Persuasion. Your proficiency with Navigation has also helped you reach unknown destinations in the past.
11020|Bearing children is as dangerous as going to war with the knowledge of medicine available to people, and you're in the business of trying to mitigate that problem. Though you have an understanding of the body and know how to treat many things, there's a clear specialty, and you're often fetched at odd hours to handle the problems of new people joining or soon to join the world, and at more-normal hours to treat problems that uniquely affect women.\n\nMidwifery is an odd territory to manage, and doing well has required your proficiency at Insight and your proficiency with Medicine, and you are competent with Herbalism, to the ends of treating whatever ailments you encounter.
11021|You have spent your life under the vows of a monastery, devoting yourself to faith and scholarship. Though you're often associated with those whose vows include the mastery of martial arts, not all monasteries include such teachings; the thread running through them all is reflection and self improvement, not violence.\n\nYour life of humble scholarship has given you proficiency with History and Religion, and your frequent task of preserving knowledge, often in artful works of text, has given you proficiency with Calligraphy.
11022|You have a talent for producing pleasing sounds, whether through musical instruments or through your voice, you can take to the stage and put on a good show. Like for most artists, your income tends to fluctuate quite a bit, but you find a way to pull through.\n\nYou've had to have a good ear for sound and the ability to play on the stage to be a musician, and this has taught you proficiency with Perception and Performance, and your need to oddly-specific parts to make your instruments pull through odd circumstance has taught you enough to be called proficient in Carving.
11023|You've heard many people wax poetic about government being just people, but you know from experience that someone has to do the actual governing. Though you hold no office or influence since taking to adventure, you've spent many days near the top of society, making sure that everything works.\n\nMuch of your job comes to convincing people that they decided on their own to do what's best for everyone, and trying to learn from the mistakes of earlier people about what is actually best, and this has given you proficiency with History and Persuasion. Your closeness with the operation of the top rung has also made you familiar with how many things operate, and could be turned to producing Forgeries if needed.
11024|Armies don't lead themselves, and though the best soldiers only need vague direction, it has been your duty to make people operate effectively in the harshest of conditions and to prepare them for the realities of violence. Though your rank is too low to be of any special use, you've acquired bonds with others that can only come from fighting beside them.\n\nYou often find yourself having to speak on behalf of others when polite conversation is long gone, and so have gained a proficiency in Intimidation; at the same time, your superiors expect you to be reasonably well read, and this has taught you History. The simple pragmatism of getting around, often having only been given vague direction yourself, has also taught you Navigation.
11025|Maybe you have scars; maybe you have a reputation; maybe you just can't get along in conversation. For whatever reason, you can't keep a job, and you haven't decided to turn to crime to get by. Life is hard on the streets, which may be what tempted you to adventure, though you've managed to survive so far.\n\nRough street life has taught you a fair bit about squirreling your way out of trouble and noticing when it's coming, granting proficiency in Insight and Deception. When you've been able, you've sold simple carvings to try to make money in ways other than begging for charity, granting proficiency in Carving.
11026|The gods are difficult to understand, much less to follow, and you have made your life trying to translate between the divine and the mundane. This has placed you in a humble and noble position, as a community leader and a collective servant, but it's a position you've managed to negotiate so far.\n\nYour background in faith has of course taught you the ways of the gods, granting proficiency in Religion, and your need to communicate these ideas to others has taught you Persuasion. As many clerical duties still find their way to your desk, especially of divine nature, you've learned to make artful inscriptions with your Calligraphy proficiency.
11027|You know what sorts of things people need, and what sorts of things people think they need, and have found a life in satisfying a brand of need. Though it's often a dangerous job, and one that society looks down its nose at, you've managed to pull through, and it pays better than digging ditches.\n\nKeeping yourself safe at work and doing a good job at work are both functions of being able to talk your way out of situations and understanding what people mean and what they want, granting proficiency at Insight and Persuasion. In addition, you find frequent need for herbal remedies and means of contraception, where your proficiency with Herbalism has come in handy.
11028|You've lived a life on the waves, mostly on ships meant to carry cargo. From time to time, there's work in carrying passengers, but for the most part it's a life shared with the same relatively-small crew for long times, trying to keep a ship afloat and making it to the next port. Life is usually fairly dull, but the threat of piracy adds the odd moment of excitement or terror to some days, though actual events are blessedly infrequent.\n\nSurvival at sea often means being able to navigate narrow paths that actively rock or lurch, and learning how to get food at sea. This has given you proficiency with Acrobatics and Survival, and the maintenance of the softer parts of the ship has taught you the finer points of caring for cloth and rope, granting the Weaving proficiency.
11029|You have spent much of your life interested in the mysteries that are yet unknown and the mysteries that we don't realize that we know. You've read many volumes, looking for holes in our understanding, and hoping to learn what lies just beyond the veil of current knowledge.\n\nScouring the knowledge that people already have has taught much of knowledge as people tend to frame it, and granted proficiency in Religion and History, and your desire to find the undiscovered has taught you proficiency with Cartography.
11030|Some people are destined to great things, or convince themselves that they are, and they tend to hire help, like you. They tend to set you to menial tasks and hardly acknowledge your existence, but it's a living, and many on your path figure that at least it's clean.\n\nMany of your days have been made easier by studying a room and knowing what's needed without being told, and in sounding grateful for the orders when you are told to do something, or in convincing people to not gain the ire of your employer; this has given you proficiency with Investigation and Persuasion. Though most of these houses hire a distinct cook, you do often end up roped into preparing things meant for eating or drinking, granting proficiency with Cooking as well.
11031|The strongest things are made of metal, and you've made a living from making the strongest things. Though you claim a specialty-- weaponry, armor, horseshoes, or such-- the truth is that you know your way around the forge well enough to make a wide range of objects from firm functional metals like iron, steel, and bronze.\n\nYour work is physically demanding and requires regular overviewing of big projects for flaws, and this has taught you Athletics and Perception, in addition to proficiency with your trade of Smithing.
11032|You enlisted in an armed force while others were deciding to make grocers and wainwrights of themselves. It has been a demanding life, and a professional soldier is called to many conflicts and troubles that aren't quite dubbed war, though you've been fortunate enough to not have been killed by incompetent leadership.\n\nA life of hard marching and heavy loads has given you proficiency with Athletics, and you've learned that winning battles is best done by killing relatively few and making the others think that trying their luck is a bad idea, giving you proficiency with Intimidation. Bigger groups of soldiers tend to have a cook that comes along with them, but this isn't the reality on the ground most of the time, and your turn to cook comes around often enough to give you proficiency in Cooking.
11033|Though your profession's name is often a euphemism for a woman who can't be married off, you've made a reliable if humble way in textiles, sometimes spinning thread to be sold and sometimes producing cloth for the same ends.\n\nThere's not terribly much negotiation in textiles, and so you haven't learned to haggle as a merchant, but you have learned to spot a shyster and bad products, granting proficiency with Insight and Perception. In addition, your broad skill with textiles gives you proficiency with Weaving.
11034|You make your living off of solving medical problems that aren't well solved with herbs alone. Sometimes the best way to fix the problem at hand is by removing or manually adjusting part of the body. Though it's messy work, success at it commands a kind of respect and the comfort of knowing that your work often saves lives, and at least usually makes them better.\n\nYour trade requires a knowledge of disease and anatomy, granting you proficiency with Medicine, and the ability to discern very-fine details when rummaging for more information is noisy, messy, and dangerous, granting proficiency with Investigation. As part of pursuing your trade, you've still learned of remedies and poultices, and have proficiency with Herbalism to show for it.
11035|You've never had much respect for property law, and have made a living out of turning things that belong to other people into things that belong to you. It often turns into rougher exchanges than simple burglary, but you've learned to acquire things that you can only get in person too.\n\nYou've found a good deal of use in quick fingers and going unnoticed in this profession, which grants you proficiency in Stealth and Sleight of Hand. In addition, you've had to get by locks and devious devices enough times that you've learned, and gained proficiency in Housebreaking.
11036|Though your work is closely related to hunters, it takes a dramatically different shape. You do relatively little stalking of your own, but rather take to guessing where the animals you want are likely to go, and find ways to make that trip unfortunate for them. It tends to be a life focused on small and tricky animals, though from time to time also means trying to trap a creature for being a menace.\n\nThe act of setting your traps demands that you pass the woods relatively unnoticed and relatively unmolested, and requires that you be able to identify the signs of animals passing through, granting you proficiency with Stealth and Survival. Your need to construct devices to immobilize or kill your prey has taught you proficiency with Tinkering.
11037|More than a few speak of people like you with a sneer, and say scolding things for your lack of a home or for not waving the banner of some local lord, but you've found that you can carry everything you need, and take advantage of the mobility that grants you, traveling to where ever things seem best for the time.\n\nCrossing long distances so often has made you quite fit and granted proficiency with Athletics, and much of your time on the road focuses on finding and preparing food, which has granted you proficiency with Survival and Cooking.
11038|You work in textiles, producing fabrics for specific purposes. From time to time, you're even called on to produce art in your weaving, though most of your business comes from peoples' collective desire to not be naked all the time.\n\nYour profession has given you quick hands and nimble fingers, and thus proficiency with Sleight of Hand, and your need to be aware of plants and their properties to produce those clothes has given you a proficiency in Nature. Of course, you're also proficient at Weaving, and hold it as your primary profession.