12000|Altruistic characters are those who sacrifice of themselves for the wellbeing of others. They take risks and give away their own property to see to the safety or quality of life of others.\n\nAltruism cannot be taken by a character who takes Greed.
12001|Wise characters are those who are capable of viewing broad perspectives and situations, and are typically capable of greater empathy than the average person.\n\nWisdom cannot be taken by a character who takes Naivety.
12002|Prudent characters are those who are especially capable of self-regulation and moderation. They excel at self control and do well at balancing themselves against extremes.\n\nPrudence cannot be taken by a character who takes Foolhardiness.
12003|Characters with arête are those who approach life with an unflappable motivation and energy, often excelling at some particular task by their constant energy and effort.\n\nArête cannot be taken by a character who takes Torpor.
12004|Courageous characters are those who are capable of conquering their personal fears and aversions when the situation demands. They often accomplish tasks specifically against adversity and resist urges to back down.\n\nCourage cannot be taken by a character who takes Cowardice.
12005|Patient characters are those who are capable of disregarding persistent but relatively-mild troubles when they would break common people. Though they rarely burst into scenes, they often manage their tasks through quiet persistence.\n\nPatience cannot be taken by a character who takes Wrath.

12500|Greedy characters have trouble giving of themselves and what they own when the situation demands, and struggle to maintain social normalcy against the reputation of their avarice on account.\n\nGreed cannot be taken by a character who takes Altruism.
12501|Naïve characters have trouble seeing outside of their own particular settled positions and understandings, and view the world as far simpler and more homogenous than it actually is.\n\nNaivety cannot be taken by a character who takes Wisdom.
12502|Foolhardy characters are prone to extremes, and often find themselves drowned by drug, drink, sex, or all of the lot to the degree that it hampers their ability to function normally.\n\nFoolhardiness cannot be taken by a character who takes Prudence.
12503|Torpid characters lack the energy and motivation to accomplish what they wish to, and often see tasks fail simply by merit that they cannot make themselves see it any differently, and struggle to get started on--let alone finish--projects.\n\nTorpor cannot be taken by a character who takes Arête.
12504|Cowardly characters find themselves routinely bullied and compelled by their own fears and anxieties, fleeing confrontation and adversity and following patterns of avoidance when things look particularly difficult.\n\nCowardice cannot be taken by a character who takes Courage.
12505|Wrathful characters are prone to outbursts and harshness, often having a very low threshold for the troubles and see many things fall apart due to an overreaction.\n\nWrath cannot be taken by a character who takes Patience.

12800|Characters of this sort feel no particular compulsion to take care of others, and often argue that others need to take care of and protect themselves. They will often harm others to benefit themselves, even trivially, without feeling particularly bad about it.
12801|Characters of this sort generally leave troubling situations alone except when in the most dire straights. Other peoples' plight is none of their business until it is life threatening or some kind of disaster. They will harm others for personal benefit, though within limits; they will avoid killing people for their own benefit, if they can.
12802|Characters of this sort often find there to be value in seeing that other peoples' lives are basically provided for. They don't try to involve themselves into the finer details, but view issues of severe human suffering to be things that merit intervention inherently.
12803|Characters of this sort view the health, wealth, and wellbeing of others to be issues which require intervention where they fail. The suffering implied by allowing one to be sick or homeless, when the resources to provide food and shelter are available, is a central wrong that they will seek to alter, and will sometimes scold others for failing to alter.
12804|Characters of this sort feel no particular need to regulate the treatment of people relative to one another, and often argue that attempting to force people to treat one another equally is wrong, as it robs us of some portion of free will or judgment.
12805|Characters of this sort stand most often for the fair treatment of those who are in the same meaningful groups as themselves. They most-commonly argue against trying to be fair to enemies or criminals, and generally don't particularly care about how fair things are outside of things they're part of.
12806|Characters of this sort argue for a kind of fairness that does not move beyond the limits of basic social structure: typically believe in treating criminal acts the same regardless of other circumstances and believe strongly that people have a duty to be fair to all sentient beings to a point. They're unlikely to protest discrepancies in wealth between neighborhoods, but very likely to protest executing one man and fining another for the same act, or allowing certain behavior only for some.
12807|Characters of this sort argue that all people deserve the same treatment in a broad set of dimensions and circumstances. They find trouble in differences in wealth between neighborhoods and regions, and view many different sorts of variety in justice or the distribution of resources as problematic.
12808|Characters of this sort only feel beholden to themselves. While they don't necessarily take this to any extreme, and may well take the stance to allow themselves to better carry out other moral obligations, they're unlikely to respond to base human appeals.
12809|Characters of this sort feel connected to and responsible for people they interact with positively. Generally, this means friends and family, though there are often finer lines drawn among those groups and into acquaintances to determine degrees to which they feel responsible.
12810|Characters of this sort feel connected to and responsible for people in a large group: most commonly, it is a religion, a race, a nation. They generally also feel the same pulls toward friends and family, if those are ever outside of their broader-supported group, but will tend to favor the large group in conflicts.
12811|Characters of this sort feel connected to and responsible for all beings with a particular trait, which transcends organizational boundaries. Most commonly, this is the capacity for higher reason (that is, loyalty to all the races of men), the capacity for emotion (that is, loyalty to a wide variety of animals), or simply being alive.
12812|Characters of this sort don't feel particularly compelled to listen to people of authority, and will generally argue that they're just people who don't deserve anything special. They often view authority as a source of oppression, and openly scorn those who are part of the system.
12813|Characters of this sort generally don't feel particularly connected to people of power or public servants, but tend to define them as a "necessary evil" that people can't move along without. They'll often work with authority when directly confronted, but will otherwise not be involved, and are even likely to resist or protest elements of the system when they seem to fail.
12814|Characters of this sort generally accept and quietly support the authority and systems around them, but are generally not involved in the details. They tend to respond in a basic sense to broad appeals to "the people" to act, but are generally not compelled to do more than what's asked. They generally defend the system in direct confrontation, but don't seek that confrontation.
12815|Characters of this sort generally believe that authority and standing systems are vital and either inherently good or the best means to some other moral desire. They actively support systems and seek to establish their strength and validity: often working as public servants, or at least actively aiding them, to see it done.
12816|characters of this sort generally argue that tradition is a lot of hooey, and that defending habits by virtue of their being habits is the path to stagnancy and, ultimately, moral failure.
12817|Characters of this sort believe in the central thoughts or ideas behind traditions, and usually believe that they hold some value and inherent wisdom. However, they generally argue that these traditions need to be modernized, and frequently clash with traditionalists.
12818|Characters of this sort generally agree with the ideas behind a tradition, and hold a handful of central practices that derive from them as inherently valuable, seeking to preserve their practice and place where they can.
12819|Characters of this sort argue that tradition is sacred, and ought to be defended by virtue of it being tradition. They often view the details of practices to be important to the practice, and will seek to preserve, teach, and practice as they're able.