13000|Humans are one of the races of men, identified most-readily by their easy gait, relative height and relatively-light build. Males are typically 1.7 meters tall and 75 kg, and females are typically 1.6 meters tall and 55 kg.\n\nIn the era before cities, humans were people of grasslands and savanas. Without the encroachment of civilization, they tend to gather into small tribal structures and survive by hunting and gathering, using their well-adapted ability to walk and run to cover great ground and thrive in the relatively-less-abundant food sources that surround them.\n\nHumans typically mate by pair bonding, though extra-couple pairings are fairly common. Fertile pairs can have a child roughly every two years, though total children had tends to vary significantly by the social standing of the parents, with peasants tending toward ten and affluent people tending toward two.\n\nInside of cities, humans tend to build quickly and turn to growing cereal grains and domesticated animals to survive. The most successful of these settlements tend to include more-permanent structures, but these tend to be fortifications or pieces of art.\n\nHuman characters can expect to have relatively-rounded abilities in most regards, but will find travel particularly easy.
13001|Elves are one of the races of men, identified most-readily by their large pointed ears and comparatively-large large hands and feet. Males and females are both typically 1.5 meters tall and 50 kg.\n\nIn the era before cities, elves were people of the forests. Without the encroachment of civilization, they tend to gather into small mobile familial groups, which make and break bonds with other such groups to follow the resources of the woodlands. They use their superior climbing and swimming abilities to harvest fruit and fish from the environment, and tend to avoid eating terrestrial animals.\n\nElves typically mate through promiscuity, though they avoid having children with immediate relatives. Fertile groups typically raise twice as many children as adults, and a smaller number of children tends to be understood as a sign of hardship among elves.\n\nInside of cities, elves tend to keep near the rivers and coastlines, where they prefer to farm shellfish and maintain fruit-bearing orchards. Shelters tend to be designed to be able to be broken down and moved with relatively-little work, with exceptionally-long-lived settlements carefully growing plants to serve as the frames for more-permanent structures.\n\nElvens characters can expect to be fairly agile, but not particularly durable, and to have an easier time climbing and swimming than others.
13002|Dwarves are one of the races of men, identified by their short, robust stature and significant quantities of body hair. Males are typically 1.3 meters tall and 80 kg, and females are typically 1.2 meters tall and 60 kg.\n\nIn the era before cities, dwarves were people of the hills and mountains. Without the encroachement of civilization, they tend to gather into tight-knit clans, which rarely adjust their membership except by births or deaths. They typically survive as ambush hunters, setting deadfalls and jumping out or dropping from cover to grab their prey in close quarters, as well as gathering editble mushrooms.\n\nDwarves typically mate through permanent monogamous pair bonding. Fertile pairs can have a child roughly every two years, though totaly children had generally depends on the state and resources of the clan, typically to the number that the clan can reliably support.\n\nInside of cities, dwarves tend to build large, permanent structures and combine the cultivation of edible mushrooms and the domestication of herd animals to feed themselves. Structures themselves tend to be designed for expansion and emphasize infrastructure, though generally grow slowly.\n\nDwarven characters can expect to be tough and stable, but rather poor at interacting with others beyond the level of gross utility, and to be particularly adept at crafting objects from metal or stone.
13003|Halflings are one of the races of men, identified by their short, lithe builds and comparatively-large feet. Males are typically 1.2 meters tall and 30 kg, and females are typically 1.1 meters tall and 27 kg.\n\nIn the era before cities, halflings were people of islands. Without the encroachment of civilization, they tend to gather all of the halflings of the region into a single group and settle, making their way through hunting and gathering, particularly fishing, and able to thrive in fairly-large numbers by having individuals who require relatively-little resources to survive.\n\nHalflings typically mate polygamously, though groups of fertile adults are generally exclusive among themselves once established. Fertile females can have a child roughly every year, with most having about four total.\n\nInside of cities, halflings tend to place special emphasis on agriculture, and rarely seek to domesticate animals for food. Some hunting tends to still happen, though the stable of the civilized halfling diet is tubers and root vegetables. Structures tend to be underground and built for communal use, generally placing little premium on privacy and accepting semi-permanent structures.\n\nHalfling characters can expect to be low maintenance and relatively agile, with their small stature helping them avoid detection and squeeze through spaces that wouldn't be possible for taller or heavier folk.

13500|"Boot Wearer" is a derisive term used by elves to refer to an elf who has lost his or her ways.\n\nThe term traces its origin to one of the elves' adaptations for life in the trees. Their feet have pronounced, durable, and minimally-articulated arches, which help them grasp and balance on narrow footing, particularly branches. While most are well-suited to using these to move about on trees, the same anatomy makes it uncomfortable and tiring to walk or run on flat ground, so most who live outside of trees adopt footwear to help mitigate this problem. However, tree-dwelling elves tend to find it uncomfortable to cover the soles of their feet.