14000|Bazzurdin is the god of merchants, artisans, and scholars, worshipped widely among the dwarves.\n\nBazzurdin is commonly associated with the virtue of prudence.\n\nBazzurdin is typically portrayed as a dwarf, though his specific features vary by aspect. Generally, all are bearded and have red hair, but some depictions of Bazzurdin Judico show him as clean shaven, as a reminder that judgment is free of culture and expectations.\n\nBazzurdin teaches that progress is not found through ideals or ranting, but by the setting and achieving of reasonable goals. The engine of progress is a steady, high-quality, and tenacious push toward what one wishes to achieve, and the completion of goals should be followed immediately by setting new ones. Bazzurdin also teaches that people are, by their very nature, corrupt and fickle. Efforts to control or alter them are futile gestures; the most one can do is punish those who bring disarray to the streets, so that damage can be contained.\n\nBazzurdin also generally stands in defense of privacy and personal freedoms, though only because, in his view, violations of such are extremely inefficient. The resources consumed by robbing people of their precious vices could be invested instead on things that bring much more positive results.\n\n=Aspects of Bazzurdin=\nBazzurdin has six aspects that are worshipped; typically, Bazzurdin Judico is seen as the closest to Bazzurdin's true nature, and tends to be referenced most often as a result.\n  Bazzurdin Judico is the judge. He generally wears modest robes and is often depicted as clean-shaven, holding a gavel. He is often portrayed and understood as wholly impartial, and an example of pure and untainted reason.\n  Bazzurdin Architectus is the architect. He is generally portrayed as seated, holding some variety of writing utensil. He is used as example of skillful planning, and of skillful goal-setting.\n  Bazzurdin Structoris is the mason. He is always shown as standing, and often has the largest beard of the depictions of Bazzurdin. He is typically used as example of the significance of strength, skill, and building for permanence in all worldly works.\n  Bazzurdin Ferrarius is the blacksmith. He typically holds an oversized smith's hammer and wears an apron of some variety. He is rarely, if ever, depicted as making a tool of war, but instead as making practical craftsman's tools. He is used as a reminder of the value of efficiency, and of having the correct tool for the job ahead.\n  Bazzurdin Philosophus is the philosopher. He rarely holds anything in his hands, and typically wears loose-fitting robes. Generally, he is shown as well-groomed and sitting comfortably, and serves as a reminder of the significance of reflection on knowledge, with the assumption being that knowledge without thought is useless.\n  Bazzurdin Mercator is the merchant. He typically holds a set of scales and wears the brightest clothing of the aspects of Bazzurdin. This aspect is typically viewed as a reminder of harsh reality, that progress and profit means marketing, and it makes whores and peddlers of all. Paladins of Bazzurdin often return to shrines of Mercator to remind themselves of humility.\n\nLive animals are sacraficed to Bazzurdin with some regularity. Typically, a wild animal is caught and brought to the temple, and its heart is cut out and placed before the temple's depiction of Bazzurdin Judico. Some utility is found for the remainder of the body; the majority of it is typically used as food, with tools or art being made from the bones and clothing from the pelt. It is generally called inappropriate to mix the parts of different sacrafices to make a final product, and is seen as equally inappropriate to produce one item of a pair (one fur glove, for instance).\n\n=Temples=\nBazzurdin's temples are typically a large dome. Some have windows, but most have niches carved into the exterior wall in the style of windows while allowing no natural light in. The interiors are lit by lamps and torches, often with a large, empty space in the middle of the temple and seating arranged to face the center of the temple. Religious ceremonies are held facing a priest in the center. Most temples pay special care to drainage in the central area, as it is where sacrafices are carried out.\n\n=Praying to Bazzurdin=\nBazzurdin Judico is most often prayed to when one is having difficulty making a decision, or when one believes oneself to be the victim of an injustice that stems from poor logic or poor information. Such prayers are expected to be accompanied by a live sacrafice, where a wild animal is caught and brought to the temple, its heart offered to Judico with a prayer that explains the situation, and the remainder turned into practical, usable objects.\nBazzurdin Architectus is most often prayed to when beginning a venture of some sort. While starting businesses and military campaigns are the most common, anything that should require sound planning often merits a prayer. The offering made is typically gold; most priests advise it be 1% of the cost to start the venture, but at least one coin. The offering is left and the prayer is phrased simply to ask Bazzurdin for his assistance in planning, and a prayer that the venture be successful.\nBazzurdin Structoris is the aspect most prayed to by artisans. He has very little ceremony associated with him, as most prayers are simple requests made on a daily basis by people who work with their hands. However, a special rite exists for a new apprentice in a trade. The apprentice spends a day holding vigil at the shrine of Structoris, and then spends the night in the shop where he is to learn. In the morning, the first thing he makes in his trade is brought to the shrine as an offering, with the request that his study be blessed.\nBazzurdin Ferrarius is generally prayed to after a failure of some sort. Some artifact of the failure is brought to the temple and presented to the shrine, with a description of it and a request that they be given the tools and techniques to repair and retry. Those who do not plan to try again are generally told not to bring prayers to Bazzurdin, as it is said to be bad luck.\nBazzurdin Philosophus is not generally prayed to. Shrines to philosophus often make for a locale for discussion, as they are said to be holy ground for thinkers and scholars. Some wizards pray here, typically offering their service to the advancement of knowledge and reason, and not Tywekia's plans of (inefficient) power and mastery, hoping that Bazzurdin will fortify their thoughts and guide their reasoning.\nBazzurdin Mercator is prayed to by people in service and merchanting professions. Typically, prayers are made without offering first, before going to do business, and then the first two coins of profit are returned to the shrine the following day, with thanks for his aid in the previous day's business. Praying in the same day as bringing back profits is generally said to be back luck, and is discouraged by the priests.\n\n=Attitudes Toward Other Faiths=\nRaltonin is a close ally who seems to understand much about the importance of strength and tenacity. They are often said to be a bit misguided in their efforts to "convert" people to different ways of being, but Bazzurdytes rarely allow that to discount their uses and skills.\nIshania is generally dismissed as a fanciful dreamer, but is dubbed harmless. Ishanians are generally said to be lost in their own worlds, and while they are not seen as particularly productive, they also seem to take care of themselves well enough to not need intervention and keep out of the way when the church is making progress.\nCaralil is called an enemy, with his antics described as a display of horrid wastes of time, energy, and resources, and his methods as being downright counterproductive. Bazzurdytes don't respond with violence toward Caralil, but they do try to hedge the faith out, and inconvenience them when it is possible.\nDopumeh is ignored for the most part. He is less helpful than Ishania, but is also better at keeping out of the way, and he is thus dubbed tolerable.\nTywekia is a hated enemy. Tywekia represents all of the wasted force and self-centered ideology that Bazzurdin resists. Bazzurdytes see her church as an abomination that will destroy the world if left unchecked, and resist them at every opportunity.\nGarshwynn is a close ally who seems to understand the nature of people, but seems to overreact to their natures. They, however, are extremely productive and worth keeping close, if they are a bit wasteful in their administration.\nLyca appears to the Bazzurdytes to be the potential of unreflected reason. Though all things in her faith connect logically, according to the Bazzurdytes, they classify the whole experience as masturbatory: the world would be hardship with or without imposition, and they are just being silly. However, their silliness seems to be contained enough that the Bazzurdytes will tolerate them more often than not, and they generally only fight when resources are scarce.\nPazunish is thought of very much the same way that Lyca is, in that the logic is flawed in its lack of reflection and a lack of a realistic view of costs. However, Pazunish's church is seen as overtly destructive and counterproductive, so Bazzurdytes try to hamper and displace them when the opportunity presents.\nThuun is an ally of Bazzurdin, but primarily professionally. Bazzurdytes see how a solid foundation is vital to all that they value, and they thus work to appease Thuun and his church. Beyond that, sentiments are fairly strained and unpleasant.\nKarn is partially ignored. He represents a dangerous force, but also a powerful tool. Bazzurdytes thus approach with caution and keep their distance if possible.\nSylahisi is an enemy by proxy. Thuun has a distaste for Sylahisi, and the Bazzurdytes thus maintain that they harbor the same ill-will for the sake of their alliance. Though they rarely put forth a genuine effort toward thwarting the church, they often put on the act of doing so for appearance's sake.\nUashyl is partially ignored. She represents both force and means of transportation and a substitute for infrastructure. Bazzurdytes will thus deal when they must, but avoid her when possible.\n\n=Taboos=\nIt is blasphemous to intentionally damage any book, especially if done inside a temple of Bazzurdin.\nDeceit carried out inside the temple of Bazzurdin is deemed blasphemous, and said to invite a terrible curse.\nIt is tabboo to carry out business in the presence of a shrine of Bazzurdin Mercator.\nThe chairs and gavels associated with shrines of Bazzurdin are sacred, and are always handled and crafted exclusively by Bazzurdyte clergy, even if a secular artist creates the rest of the statuary.\n\n=Holy Days=\nThe church of Bazzurdin hosts no holy days or special celebrations. Each day is dubbed to be equally holy, as anniversaries of important events are generally dismissed as idle sentiment.\n\n=Church Activities=\nBazzurdin's churches are often extremely active in the communities they are in. Often, priests will actively seek public office, and establish themselves in an administrative role for the town or city while in the temple. Those priests who do not succeed at as much typically start some sort of business and attempt to use the profits to privately fund public works, especially the construction of infrastructure, such as docks or roads, when they are able. The church of Bazzurdin rarely hires mercenaries, but when they do, it is typically to exterminate some threat that is hampering the progress of a public work.
14001|Caralil is the god of art, archery, and rebellion, worshipped widely among the elves.\n\nCaralil is commonly associated with the virtue of arete.\n\nHe is usually protrayed in artwork as a young man in revealing clothing. His features are typically very attractive, and he is never shown as having body or facial hair. He is generally armed, though his choice in weaponry varies by aspect; he is often portrayed as a godly elf in elven communities, and even occasionally in other communties, as he has a very strong following among elves.\n\nCaralil teaches much about the means of making the world beautiful, and that the definition of "beauty" is often left to be either exclusively superficial - something he commonly critiques Bazzurdin for - or exclusively deep - something he commonly critiques Ishania for, and he asserts that both much be present for any project to be finished. Caralil also teaches that communities are best when they are made of acquantances. Too much familiarity, he says, stifles the individual, and he declares that one of the most severe crimes is to attempt to force membership in anything.\n\nCaralil rarely stands in "support" of anything beyond the notion of the individual; he, however, frequently stands against tyrrany and oppression, often regardless of the people being oppressed.\n\n=Aspects of Caralil=\nCaralil has five aspects that are commonly worshipped. Temples typically pick a single aspect to focus on, and make a shrine to the aspect the center piece.\nCaralil Bellator is the personification of a boldness and skill in combat. He is typically portrayed as standing perfectly upright with a bow in hand, drawn to his cheek as often as held at his side. He never looks at the place worshipers are expected to pray in.\n  Caralil Rebellis is the personification of righteous resistance to authority. He is typically portrayed in more formal clothing than the other aspects, standing on some variety of pedestal and postured as an orator.\n  Caralil Artifex is the personification of creativity and artistry. He is usually portrayed as a sculptor, fashioning something nondescript and hand-sized with a chisel. Generally speaking, his expression shows exceptional calm, but concentration isn't uncommon.\n  Caralil Lepidus is the personification of charismatic performance and charm. He is typically portrayed as a young woman, seated, wearing bright and 'poofy' clothes, with a lute in hand. Interpretations of the gender shift associated with this aspect are many, but the most commonly-cited notion is that gender is immaterial to the artistic spirit, with the notion that complete empathy for the opposite sex is needed to be expressive to everyone as a second-most-common explanation.\n  Caralil Sectator is the personification of a hunter's skill and dedication. He is typically portrayed as a hooded man, crouched with one hand placed on the ground.\n  Caralil rarely accepts any living sacrafices. It is far more common - and far more acceptable - to release a person or animal from captivity as an offering to Caralil. However, when an animal is slain for a religious rite, it is typically a deer or cow. The meat from the animal is often eaten, and the hide cured and formed into a decoration for the shrine.\n\n=Temples=\nTemples of Caralil vary in structure by who builds and maintains them. Open air temples are the most common amongst elves, with a primary, central shrine to whom the temple is dedicated taking the center, sometimes with other shrines serving as satellite to the original. There are usually no clear borders in these temples, and the religious decorations are phased in at the "edges". When made by other races, temples of Caralil often have no roof, but do have walls. They typically follow the tradition of dedicating the temple to one aspect of Caralil, and are much less likely to keep satellite shrines.\n\n=Praying to Caralil=\nCaralil Bellator is typically prayed to before a battle, especially before a battle with the typical "monster" races: goblins, orcs, dragons, and the like. Traditionally, one offers two arrows - one with a steel head and one with an alabaster head - to make this prayer. The worshiper describes what he or she means to fight, and then presents the arrows, breaking the steel-headed one while saying "that it may never be needed," followed by laying the alabaster-headed one by the statue's feet while saying "that they may all be this beautiful."\nTraditionally, Caralil Rebellis is prayed to before any conflict with a government - from a trial to a coup - carried out by common people. Prayers to Caralil Rebellis are, ideally, performed in groups, with the leader of the act leading all involved in the prayer. The offering is usually a copper coin from each member, the collection of which is stacked. Large groups make their stacks wider, laying four coins in a square and having each layer rotated 45 degrees from the one below it.\nTraditionally, Caralil Artifex is prayed to before a worshiper undertakes some variety of artistic project. While some people will occasionally pray to him before more mundane projects, a product that is supposed to have more utility than esthetic appeal isn't traditionally Caralil's domain. The traditional offering is a small quantity of the material to be worked with, usually just a sliver of solid bits or a dab of liquids, with the prayer of "bless me with your eyes for beauty and your hands for shaping."\nCaralil Lepidus is usually prayed to by actors before a play and by musicians before a performance. He is also rarely prayed to by people who intend to attend formal parties, and is something of an 'all purpose' aspect for elven worshipers. To the elven mind, all of life is an art and performance, and it is being done well if it is beautiful. Offerings to Caralil Lepidus are varied, but as a rule, it may never be money, a gemstone, or a living thing. Freshly fallen fruit, however, is often offered; it is deemed unacceptable to offer fruit that has been picked, however.\nCaralil Sectator has much overlap in tradition and conditions for worship with Caralil Bellator. The offerings and prayers are identical, however, Caralil Sectator is usually prayed to when the foe is deemed more deserving of respect, and almost exclusively by elves (who do not typically think there anything dishonorable about guerilla warfare). One would pray to Caralil Bellator before raiding a village of orcs, for example, but would pray to Caralil Sectator before going to war with other elves. Who is prayed to for foes between those two extremes tends to depend on the opinions of the worshipper. It is usually deemed uncouth for a priest of Caralil to suggest whether one should pray to Bellator or Sectator before a fight; traditionally, both are suggested for any coming fight.\n\n=Attitudes Toward Other Faiths=\nRaltonin represents a special sort of threat to Caralil. His philosophy tries hard to sound comforting and compassionate, allowing it to seduce many into losing themselves.\nIshania is generally called an ally. When the two faiths can agree on goals or objectives, the church of Ishania often lends powerful magical support to Caralil efforts. However, there is some animosity held towards the Ishanians, as they represent a more popular idea of goodness and beauty.\nBazzurdin is seen as a villain of the plainest variety. They often refuse challenges from Caralil's church and focus intently on material and economic forces, prostituting the creative spirit, as they often say.\nDopumeh is a passing ally to Caralil. The two faiths agree on many things, especially in the realm of tyrants. The faiths disagree on the response, but the Caralil warriors often believe the faith's heart is well-placed, and seek to secure their comfort and freedom.\nTywekia is treated as a reliable mercenary ally by Caralil's church. Though the two faiths do not often agree with one another, they do often find mutually beneficial agreements, and will work together to upset the function of lawful enemies.\nGarshwynn is a genuinely hated, but respected, enemy. Garshwynnian soldiers rarely, if ever, refuse a challenge, and Caralil's church holds a grudging respect for them for it. They may be oppressive villains, but they own their status, willingly accept that others may wish to stop them, and grant the challenger opportunity to do so.\nLyca is a cursed enemy, seen to be a creator of strife and suffering for its own sake. Though the thinkers among Caralil's ranks have heard their argument in its fullest, they rarely accept it as at all beneficial, citing the damage done by their "hardships" as monsterous and needing to be stopped.\nPazunish is seen as competition by the warriors of Caralil. They, too, are hunters in the night, but they target the weak instead of the abusive and powerful; they ruin the image of the hermit and the hunter, and thus represent a corruption to the Caralil faith, combined with the moral implications of their hunts.\nThuun represents the threats of the natural world. While Caralil's church accepts a certain amount of inevitability to such disasters, they are seen as obstacles to overcome more than anything, and the associated faiths are treated the same.\nKarn represents the threats of the natural world. While Caralil's church accepts a certain amount of inevitability to such disasters, they are seen as obstacles to overcome more than anything, and the associated faiths are treated the same.\nSylahisi represents the threats of the natural world. While Caralil's church accepts a certain amount of inevitability to such disasters, they are seen as obstacles to overcome more than anything, and the associated faiths are treated the same.\nUashyl represents the threats of the natural world. While Caralil's church accepts a certain amount of inevitability to such disasters, they are seen as obstacles to overcome more than anything, and the associated faiths are treated the same.\n\n=Taboos=\nThe church of Caralil is generally more accepting of the touching and handling of religious objects than other faiths, and their sense of tabboo often becomes a matter of sensing taste. There is no sense of specific ownership of anything within a Caralil temple, but it is seen as wrong to remove anything from the temple. Art and statues are often embellished, but it is seen as bad to make a permanent alteration; framing a painting or dressing a statue is acceptable, but putting new paint on is not. Otherwise, the alterations are judged by taste, which is typically based on the culture and context.\n\nHoly Days\nCaralil does not have many holy days. However, two days are mentioned in his faith as having special importance: the summer equinox is the Night of the Minstril, when single men of the faith traditionally attempt to serenade women they are interested in.\nAlso, the first full moon of a new year is the New Beginning's Banquet, when Caralil's temples traditionally host a feast and all in attendance declare the wrongs done to them in the previous year forgiven, so long as the wrongdoers also attend the feast and ask for the forgiveness.\n\n=Church Activities=\nCaralil's churches prefer to keep a low profile in most of their goals and habits. Their preferences in temples generally leaves them vulnerable to direct attacks, but they regularly stage discreet assaults on those they believe to be enemies. Occasionally, formal challenges or wars will be declared, but such is always under the official sanction of a secular organization, which the temple swears no association with.
14002|Dopumeh is the god of transitions, doorways, crossroads, and death, worshipped mostly among ascetics and philosophers.\n\nDopumeh is commonly associated with the virtue of patience.\n\nIn artwork, Dopumeh is typically portrayed in very abstract forms. When he is personified, he is generally shown as bald and elderly, holding a cane. More commonly, he is portrayed as a mist or a glowing aura, and even the artists who produce as much would insist that it is too concrete to truly capture the essence of Dopumeh.\n\nDopumeh teaches that nothing in the world is permanent, and that the efforts of people to make things that are creates strife for as long as they struggle. All things must die, and the steady hand of entropy sees to as much. Even life itself, in the eyes of Dopumeh, is much like the burning of a fire; it provides warmth while it burns, but will in time be reduced to ash, which can not be kindled again.\n\nDopumeh stands in support of and offers protection to pacifists and ascetics. Though he never has any particular political agenda to accomplish, he is frequently invoked after births and weddings, and at funerals.\n\n=Aspects of Dopumeh=\nThough Dopumeh's temples do not officially recognize any specific aspects of Dopumeh, his cult has developed in such a way that he is worshipped in five distinct ways, each having developed into an aspect much like is seen in other deities.\n  Dopumeh Genetor is the personification of births and - more generally - the creation of anything, especially something living. In artwork, this aspect is often shown with warm colors, especially oranges and golds.\n  Dopumeh Messor is the personification of death and harvests; Messor is rarely invoked to discuss the destruction of a treasured inanimate object, but careful study of Dopumeh's teachings generally reveal such to be flawed. In artwork, brown and dark violet are preferred in displaying this aspect.\n  Dopumeh Consortio is the personification of companionships, especially at moments when the lives and living arrangements of those involved change. Dopumeh is often invoked in this sense after weddings, as the new couple begins to live together. In artwork, red is preferred in portrating this aspect.\n  Dopumeh Quadrivium is the personification of decisions, especially those that are seen as diverging paths in life, to which the person choosing is not likely to gain a second chance. In artwork, this aspect is typically portrayed as a literal crossroads, usually with paths that lead to widly different scenaries.\n  Dopumeh Morior is the personification of decay, especially decay that happens naturally, and the degrading performance of both people and objects as they age. In artwork, this aspect is most commonly a grey or black mist.\n  Dopumeh Rex is Dopumeh as king of the underworld. Priests of Dopumeh often scold those who pray to Dopumeh Rex, but the cult persists. In artwork, this aspect is most commonly portrayed as being of the same race as the artist, shown as a wisened bald man with a cane. He, occasionally, is bearded. When he is, it is almost always a very large full beard.\n\n=Temples=\nThe philosophy of Dopumeh forbids his priests from attempting to create any permanent things, including structures. As such, temples to Dopumeh are typically built as temporary structures. Most often, the temple will be a simple yurt erected outside of a city. Inside, the priests typically work on assembling a work of art to identify the temple out of an intentionally fragile material - such as sand, ice, or foodstuffs - and then somehow plan for the artwork to be destroyed. Miraculous works made from colored sand might be placed in a doorway, causing foot traffic to destroy the work over time. Ice sculpture might be allowed to melt in the summer; foodstuffs might be allowed to spoil.\nRegardless of the strategy, once the art that was the temple's centerpiece is completely destroyed, the temple is moved, and the priests begin a new work.\n\n=Praying to Dopumeh=\nThe various cults of Dopumeh and the blessed priests of Dopumeh disagree on the appropriate ways to pray to Dopumeh.\nAmong the priests of Dopumeh, the common belief is that there is no appropriate time or purpose to pray to Dopumeh; all that happens is another step in the world's eventual decay, and attempting to turn to the divine to somehow protect those things would be blasphemy. One gains the favor of Dopumeh, instead, through self-denial, meditation, and pacifism. Dopumeh's priests also do not pray to recieve spells; instead, they meditate for a half hour before going to sleep at night and do the same once they wake up in the morning.\nAmong the cults of Dopumeh, the deity is prayed to whenever a major change comes into a life. In these cults, Dopumeh is often described as accepting sacrifices of valuables, especially luxuries that were once used by those praying for favor. These offerings are typically destroyed with some kind of natural force, depending on the particular item: burning offerings is common; variety in the prayers comes only in which aspect is invoked.\nIn these cults, Genetor is prayed to after a child is born; clothing worn to parties or festivals is said to be a favored sacrifice for such.\nConsortio is prayed to after a honeymoon, when a married couple begins to live together in normal domestic circumstances. Alcohol is said to be the ideal sacrifice.\nMorior is prayed to before making major decisions that could change lives; shoes or boots are said to be an ideal sacrifice for such.\nRex is prayed to on the first full moon after the new year, typically asking that he continue to care for the souls of the dead. Those who pray typically fast for a day before and then hold vigil over the graves of their relatives at night.\n\n=Attitudes Toward Other Gods=\nDopumeh teaches a response to the other deities much as an adult watches playing children: there is age and experience insisting that they trudge helplessly toward a life of burden and sorrow - or death - and so he teaches to allow them to have their fun while they are still able. In the same breath, he teaches to try to curb the enthusiasm of the most energetic of faiths - such as Raltonin, Caralil, Garshwynn, and Pazunish - with the notion that their extreme idealism is especially likely to result in pain for their entire churches in the long term.\n\n=Taboos=\nAll of the practices of cults and aspects of Dopumeh is considered taboo by his formal church. Dopumeh is, to the ordained, just Dopumeh, representing a complex and abstract idea of the shifting and dieing universe. Attempting to simplify and compartmentalize such a concept is to keep one further from a complete understanding of the faith, and is thus frowned upon.\n\n=Holy Days=\nThe only holy day in Dopumeh's proper faith is the new year. On this day, temples will review the previous year and, if the temple has not moved since the last new year, they will actively destroy whatever piece of art was in the temple and move it that night.\nIn the cults of Dopumeh, there are many ill-defined holy days for various reasons, typically at the anniversaries of the births and deaths of famous people near the particular collection of people. The only of these days that is universal is on the first full moon of the new year, which is their traditional day to pray to Dopumeh Rex.\n\n=Church Activities=\nDopumeh is actively withdrawn from the day-to-day activities of the world, and the churches most often simply provide simple services to the settlements nearest to them. They will perform funerals; they will serve as midwives; they will assist farmers with harvests or planting; they will offer council to those hurting emotionally and healing to those hurting physically. They will rarely actively pursue any of these activities, but they will also rarely decline if asked.
14003|Garshwynn is the god of battle and leadership, worshipped widely among goblinfolk.\n\nGarshwynn is commonly associated with the virtue of courage.\n\nHe is usually depicted as a square-jawed and clean-shaven man with shortly-cropped or cleanly-shaven hair and an exceptionally thick torso. His features often vary slightly by aspect, but the expression is always stern and his gaze fixed forward. Garshwynn's race in artwork typically reflects the race of the creators. His skin tone is typically fair in colder, darker regions and dark in warmer, brighter regions. He is more likely to have a shaved head in warm climates, but his wardrobe remains fairly constant.\n\nGarshwynn teaches that there is a fundamental difference between common people and warriors. Warriors are, by his teaching, an entirely different breed of people, and deserve to be treated differently. Warriors, by virtue of being warriors, are afforded certain luxuries: more money, more status, more legal rights, the ability to command commoners. However, warriors are required to constantly train to perfect themselves and are placed in constant, merciless competition with one another. They, further, are responsible for the survival and wellbeing of the commoners they command. To the Garshwynnians, being this situation favors the commoners, who live the "true" life of luxury, being protected from the rigors of harsh reality by an elite warrior caste; the warriors are given luxury to help mitigate their lives of harship, which commoners should be happy to do.\n\nGarshwynn stands in favor of militaristic governments, especially those that attempt to be a meritocracy. He teaches that hereditary titles cause the ruling class - which should be a warrior class - to become soft, and insists that even countries that become feudalistic should have nobles who force their children to compete for the right to hold the title in the next generation. Wars are, in Garshwynn's view, the fundamental good in the world: a process by which the less-capable are removed from power and the more-capable are put into power. However, wars that target or harm commoners are deemed an abberation, and wars that cause severe damage to infrastructure are deemed criminal.\n\n=Aspects of Garshwynn=\nEight aspects of Garshwynn are most commonly worshipped. Temples typically have statues or depictions of all eight aspects either fashioned into (unneeded) pillars of the temple or carved into niches in the exterior wall, with the interior containing a single shrine.\n  Garshwynn Imperator is the patron of the warrior dictator or the military commander. He typically stands rigid with gaze focused in the distance, wearing some form of weapon on his hip, typically a stylized mace. He usually has some attribute to mark him as regal, but never wears a crown.\n  Garshwynn Custodis is the patron of guards and sentries. He typically frowns slightly with eyes slightly squinted, and is always shown in full armor, and always carries a shield - most often a rectangular tower shield - at the ready. He alternately carries a pilum, a footman's lance, and a mace.\n  Garshwynn Militis is the patron of soldiers and infantrymen. He is typically expressonless, and is shown in some form of common armor, usually wearing the temple's livery. He often carries a variety of common weapons, usually including a sword, a dagger, a pilum, and a mace. On this aspect of Garshwynn, the mace is never stylized.\n  Garshwynn Explorator is the patron of scouts and spies. He either stands tall, with a hand held to his forehead as if to shield his eyes from the sun or crouches, as if examining tracks. He is always armed and armored, but always lightly and never with bows. In areas where magic is common enough for artists to depict such, he is shown with a caster gun in hand.\n  Garshwynn Sicarius is the patron of assassins. He wears a dark red cloak, with the hood drawn, but never so much as to obscure his features. He is always armed with some variety of thrusting weapon, usually a long dagger, but sometimes a short sword. He never carries a weapon that would be too large to conceal under a cloak.\n  Garshwynn Monomachia is the patron of duels, trial by combat, and other forms of combat used for matters of honor or justice. He is always unarmored and barefoot, and carries some variety of long, most commonly a two-handed sword, but occasionally a spear, a staff, or a maul.\n  Garshwynn Gladiator is the patron of jousting, gladitorial battles, boxing, wrestling, and other forms of combat-based sport. There are two common ways to depict Garshwynn Gladiator. He is either shown as a shirtless man with hands wrapped and minimal garments on his lower body. He is unarmed when depicted as such. He may also be shown as a man on horseback, wearing a red-plumed helmet and carrying a lance. Such depictions most often appear in paintings, due to the need for uniform presentation with the other aspects when in sculpture.\n  Garshwynn Carnufex is the patron of executioners and torturers. He is typically shown as a shirtless man, far bulkier than most depictions of Garshwynn, either masked or hooded, carrying a large two-handed axe and wearing a belt filled with tools. His ensemble is typically primarily black, though his belt is often backed by a bright red sash.\n  Garshwynnian faith is typically fairly utilitarian. The focus is most often upon the concepts, ideas, and actions of the worshippers, but ceremony does play a role. Garshwynn accepts animal sacrafices as part of praying with some regularity, preferring bulls,  goats, and snakes to other animals. Human sacrafice also plays a fairly large role in the faith, but with many stipulations. The sacraficed person must be a warrior who has lost a great battle and was wounded in it - preferably by the person performing the sacrafice - and the sacraficer must absorb all of the sacraficed person's duties and responsiblities. The sacrafice is carried out at dawn in a temple, where the person's throat is cut and the blood is rubbed over the face of the sacraficer as a mask. The mask is powdered with plaster and coated with blood again, repeating the process five times. Once the victim has bleed to death, the mask is allowed to dry, peeled off in one piece, and set on a mannequin head, most often in the sacraficer's home, but occasionally in an office of the absorbed holding. Kings are especially favored, but any holder of a hereditary title is deemed an excellent sacrafice. War criminals are also deemed excellent sacrafices, but they are typically slaughtered in the name of Garshwynn Carnufex, specifically.\n\nTemples\nGarshwynn's temples are typically made primarily of marble, or another light-colored stone. The veins in marble are thought of as especially attractive. Thick castings of glass brick with varying materials used to produce dark veins are not unheard of as construction materials, but thin panes are typically frowned-upon. The buildings are typically rectangular, with the two short walls both dressed to appear as the front of the temple, and statues of four aspects of Garshwynn on display on each end. The interior of the temple is typically symmetrical, with two stage-like altars or sanctuaries against the walls in the center of the temple, connected by a wide, typically carpeted, aisle. Banners often hang above the altars, but are not thought of as required.\n\n=Praying to Garshwynn=\nGarshwynn, unlike other gods, is rarely prayed to in order to request aid or favors. Even his clergy avoid such gestures, as they are deemed signs of weakness. However, divine spellcasters of Garshwynn are as common as any faith's; the prayers are simply given to thank Garshwynn for his grace and aid, when it is given or believed to be. As such, all ceremony associated with Garshwynn is focused upon gratitude, and advice given by his clergy is typically based upon the development of individual merit, rather than seeking some variety of providence.\nGarshwynn Imperator is typically prayed to after a promotion or a successful conquest. Once the person is given a new rank, a visit to Garshwynn's shrine - especially if accompanied by a sacrafice of either the defeated ruler or his/her crown/coronet/tiara/scepter - is thought of as good and appropriate. Such prayers are brief, often being limited to a thanking for being allowed success and asking to be allowed to continue to hold the position.\nGarshwynn Custodis is typically prayed to after a quiet night at guard duty, or after success at holding a fortification. Individual soldiers are expected to give very little, often marked by routing by the temple on the way home and bowing to the appropriate statue. Commanders of a successful defensive battle are expected to tithe are relatively small about - typically 1% - of the remaining war chest out of gratitude for the success. Commanders who simply guard a place or thing during peace time are expected to tithe a guard's salary to the temple, typically on a monthly basis.\nGarshwynn Militis is typically prayed to after a successful offensive battle. Many armies carry a small statue of Garshwynn Militis to serve as a shrine with the unit's standard. Most such statues are placed on a platform that is carried on the shoulders of two men, and includes an altar. Men wounded in combat are expected to allow a small amount of blood to drip on the altar, and those who thank Garshwynn Militis from a unit that does not carry such a statue will often break open or pick at a scabbed wound to accomplish this. In such cases, priests often offer to treat any potential infection at little cost, if not for free.\narshwynn Explorator is never prayed to outside of a temple, as the gesture is believed to be bad luck and to invite suspicion. The prayers are always silent, and given at least three weeks after successfully obtaining information either as a spy or scout or from a spy or scout. No sacrafice or offering is given; it is also deemed to invite bad luck.\nGarshwynn Sicarius is prayed to when becoming an assassin or knifeman, asking that the god allow events to follow to judge his worthiness, and after successful missions, thanking Garshwynn for the high opinion he holds. If an assassin is caught, especially religious ones often make a statement to Garshwynn accepting their unworthiness and the punishment before giving their last words, frequently while on the gallows or about to be put to the block, addressing the crowd as much as the deity. Ceremony that mimics that of Explorator often takes hold in societies that view assassination as inappropriate or unethical.\nGarshwynn Monomachia is prayed to before duels, typically addressed to the deity but phrased as a statement of fact and an invitation to watch. The victor often visits the shrine and, if any monetary gain was had by winning the duel, he is expected to tithe 10% of the value.\nGarshwynn Gladiator is prayed to at the beginning of any combat-based sport, with the contestants often stating briefly that they offer their blood to their people and to Garshwynn. If there is an event that is meant to contain many such contests or many fighters, they often open with a priest of Garshwynn leading the crowd in a prayer thanking him for the spectacle and the example offered by the valiant contestants.\nGarshwynn Carnufex is typically prayed to before any act of torture or execution, wherein the torturer/executioner states the name of his lord, the name of the victim-to-be, and that he offers the person's pain, blood, or life to the greater good and to Garshwynn.\n=Attitudes Toward Other Faiths=\nRaltonin is treated as an enemy, but as a respected enemy. Garshwynnians do everything in their power to stop the progress of the Raltonyte church, and to depose the kings they support, but they avoid speaking of the Raltonytes as "bad people." Garshwynnians believe their duty is not to scold, but to prove the superiority of their ways (by winning wars).\nIshania is treated with variable quantities of resistance, depending upon how active they are in a region. Garshwynnian churches will respond to any actions taken against them with fierceness and dedication, but if the Ishanians are not believed to be undermining or fighting against the Garshwynnian church, they are often simply left alone, being thought of as useful in the marraiges they create and, thus, in the boosts to population they offer.\nCaralil is often chased out of any Garshwynn-controlled areas, even when a particular sect takes a peaceful stance. The church is, in the Garshwynnian mind, dedicated exclusively to sewing rebellion and unrest, and are thus the targets of legal oppression, assassinations, and varying methods of sabotage.\nBazzurdin is viewed as an ally, creating and fostering trade everywhere that they go. They build and support infrastructure, which Garshwynnian people love,but avoid moral or ethical issues, which Garshwynnians often think of as a waste.\nDopumeh is often called a faith of commoners, and so long as they maintain their typical stance - which involves not contesting the Garshwynnians - they are deemed to be under the protection of Garshwynn wherever the two coexist\nTywekia represents a dangerous and chaotic element to the Garshwynnians. They view the faith as the result of virtue being corrupted by insanity, and often work to restrict, if not destroy, the church where it grows. They often allow them to exist in very small manifestations, but view signs of political power or high revinues in the church as too dangerous to be worth the risk.\nLyca is viewed as an ally, who supports and fosters the strength and intellect demanded of good warriors, though the two churches often debate about the ends of such a strength, the Lycans saying that strength is an end in itself, and the Garshwynnians believing that strength for its own sake is too temporary an end, and becomes a waste upon the person's death.\nPazunish is typically a hated enemy, as the church encourages violence against commoners. Though Garshwynn acknolwedges a certain amount of sense to the notion of removing the weak from the world, they believe that only those who accept such judgment - warriors, namely - should be subject to it.\nUashyl, being an elemental goddess, is viewed with suspicion at best, and hatred at most. They represent an unstability that Garshwynnian faith finds threatening to the proper order of the world, wherein the warriors are supreme.\nThuun, being an elemental god, is viewed with suspicion at best, and hatred at most. They represent an unstability that Garshwynnian faith finds threatening to the proper order of the world, wherein the warriors are supreme.\nKarn, being an elemental goddess, is viewed with suspicion at best, and hatred at most. They represent an unstability that Garshwynnian faith finds threatening to the proper order of the world, wherein the warriors are supreme.\nSylahisi, being an elemental goddess, is viewed with suspicion at best, and hatred at most. They represent an unstability that Garshwynnian faith finds threatening to the proper order of the world, wherein the warriors are supreme.\n\n=Taboos=\nIt is blasphemous to wear a crown, coronet, tiara, or hat inside the temple of Garshwynn. While helmets are technically acceptable, they are usually removed for respect.\nIt is blasphemous to refer to any appointed -- not elected -- public official by his title inside a temple of Garshwynn.\nIt is blasphemous to refuse a challenge to a contest of arms inside a temple of Garshwynn; it is heresy to make an uneven challenge inside a temple.\nPriests and Priestesses of Garshwynn must aways be armed when performing any ceremony in the temple.\nNo person may wear green inside the temples of Garshwynn.\nIt is thought to be in poor taste to wear colors near-green, such as teal or chartreuse, in the temples of Garshwynn.\nOnly holy people of Garshwynn may ever touch weapons that are on the statues or shrines of Garshwynn, and only to clean them.\nNo blood may be shed in a temple of Garshwynn unless a holy person leads one side of the conflict.\n\n=Holy Days=\nThe church of Garshwynn has a holy day every eight days, each holy day following a sequence of five, with the addition of a holy day at the new year.\nThe first in the cycle is The Debutant's Eve, wherein the warriors of a church are honored by faithful commoners with presentations of song and dance; during this holiday, young and single commoners are (re)introduced to single warriors, and there is typically an empty seat kept next to each, should they request a conversation with a commoner. Warriors are expected to be reserved and respectful on this day; it is in extremely poor taste for a warrior to bring a commoner home.\nThe second in the cycle is the Tactician's Day, wherein the warriors of a church compete in a war-emulating game, often with cards or variations on chess/checkers (which game often follows an annual cycle). The matches are held in a tournament, and the winner is addressed as a priest/priestess for the following week as well as being honored in a service.\nThe third in the cycle is the Fighter's Day, wherein the warriors of a church compete in hand-to-hand matches, typically unarmed and wearing little more than what is needed to maintain decency. In colder climates, heavier wardrobes are more common, but the matches are always barefoot. The matches are held in a tournament, and the winner is addressed as a priest/priestess for the following week as well as being honored in a service.\nThe fourth in the cycle is the Guard's day, wherein the warriors of a church patrol, inspect, and repair fortifications near the church, as well as on the church itself, in ceremonial garb resembling that of clerics of Garshwynn Custodis, though laymen wear a long dark cloth instead of an avantail.\nThe fifth in the cycle is the Commoner's Day, wherein the warriors decide upon a project or public work that is vital to the growth of the area in the church's influence, and they all lend their labor to help it progress, finishing it if possible. Traditionally, commoners will bring enough bread to feed warriors, and offer whatever accomodations they have if the work continues past sunset.\nThis cycle is repeated nine times per year, with the cycle being broken to have a new year's celebration, which is typically a feast and is seen as the appropriate time for the announcing of and dissolving of alliances and legal contracts (marraige being counted among them; the institution is largely seen as a mechanism for the peaceful creation of a next generation, rather than being connected to love in any way).\n\n=Church Activities=\nThe church of Garshwynn is primarily interested in the placement of power into the right hands. They treat themselves as a political institution, and will often establish theocracies that use their power to create effective republics of their land. They raise and field armies in the name of the church, and even war against their own churches as they manifest in other regions and invade neighboring nations, especially if they are tyrannical monarchies, which the church will often fight even if it is unlikely to win. Garshwynn's belief that competition is the best path to putting those of merit at the heights of power leads to many internal conflicts in the church, but Garshwynn's teachings of honor, restraint, and decency makes such conflicts marked by the formation of factions and formal declarations of hostility, which end in properly-drawn treaties or official surrenders.
14004|Ishania is the goddess of love, beauty, and fertility, having small congregations in almost every society.\n\nIshania is commonly associated with the virtue of altruism.\n\nIshania is usually portrayed as beautiful woman in the nude, or sometimes in a shimmering white dress, with bright red hair. She is patron to love, though often misinterpreted as patron only to romantic love. In art and paintings, she is usually shown in some body of water - rivers and waterfalls especially, though seas aren't uncommon - and is always posed in a way to conceal privates.\n\nShe teaches that affection, in all of its forms, amounts to the purest good that can be brought to the world, and that is misunderstanding, misuse, and abuse create the greatest pains in the world. The common advice given by her priests and priestesses is to be sure that one is "praying to the right aspect." While Ishania's teaching's encourage mobility between the kinds of love (friends becoming lovers becoming spouses, for instance) she opposes ambiguity in the kinds of love shown, and she discourages arrangements such as friends sleeping together without defining themselves as lovers. Priests would explain such to be a "misapplication of love, and doomed to end in suffering."\n\n=Aspects of Ishania=\nThere are seven aspects of Ishania that are commonly worshipped. These aspects are discussed as distinct beings, but generally understood by followers to be abstractions of a single being's attitudes about different ways to love, and speaking of them as distinct simply makes discussing the appropriate ways to pray easier.\n  Ishania Matris is the personification of a mother's love. This aspect is usually portrayed as a woman of rounded features and wide hips, often holding a child, but occasionally with arms extended as if prepared to embrace.\n  Ishania Uxor is the personification of lasting romantic love. This aspect is usually portrayed as a buxom woman, generally reclining or laying on her side and smiling.\n  Ishania Meretrix is the personification of lust and desire. This aspect is usually portrayed as crawling and grinning mischievously; It is consitered improper to create a statue of this aspect that people may walk behind. Most shrines to this aspect are placed in nooks in walls, with no definition given to the rear. If one ever ends up behind such a statue by happenstance, it is expected that one avert one's eyes.\n  Ishania Virgo is the personification of innocent infatuation. This aspect is usually portrayed as posturing demurely and giggling.\n  Ishania Amicus is the personification of the love between friends. This aspect is most commonly portrayed as clothed, with arms draped across her legs and laughing.\n  Ishania Ego is the personification of the love for oneself. This aspect is always portrayed in the nude, with knees held to the chest, arms wrapped around the legs, ankles crossed in a fashion that conceals anatomy, and head rested sideways over the arms. It is considered blasphemy to touch blessed depictions of this aspect of Ishania, except by members of her clergy, and then only to clean the statue.\n  Ishania Patronis is the personification of the love of all people. This aspect is most commonly portrayed as holding a scythe in front of herself, with the head on the ground and a hand on the snaith near its end.\n\n=Temples=\nIn temples to Ishania, Ishania Patronis is generally the central figure, though temples focused on other aspects would be seen as appropriate and still hallowed, with the relationship aspects - uxor, virgo, and meretrix - on the left and the societal aspects - matris, amicus, and ego - on the right (each set arranged from closest to farthest from Patronis).\n\n=Praying to Ishania=\nIshania Matris is usually prayed to after a child is born - not necessarily the prayer's child - or when a child is in danger. The customary offering for such a prayer is bread, which is burned. If the child is present, the cooled ashes are touched to the child's forehead while whispering the blessing "nurture and nourish." If the child is not present, the request to spirit the bread to the child and to keep him/her well until he/she is found is uttered after the bread burns out, with the situation being described while it burns. It is seen as a bad omen if a prayer can't be finished before the bread burns out.\nIshania Uxor is usually prayed to before a marraige, or before sharing a home with a partner. The traditional offering for such a prayer is a short, flat, round cake, from which the worshiper(s) take a piece, then leave the remainder in front of the shrine. The prayer usually consists only of telling Ishania what they like about one another, and it is seen as bad luck for someone to hear words about them given to Ishania.\nIshania Meretrix is usually prayed to when one wishes to make a relationship more intimate and the day after one loses one's virginity. In the former case, the traditional offering is perfume. Half of which is applied to the shrine by touching the index finger to the perfume, then touching behind the left earlobe of the shrine's statue, then touching the perfume again, then behind the shrine's right earlobe, and then performing the same on oneself. The prayer that follows is usually little more than formally announcing one's name and the name of the one the worshiper wishes to woo, though giving a physical description or mentioning habits one finds appealing is not uncommon.\nIshania Virgo is usually prayed to before a relationship begins, after another has caught a worshiper's interest. The traditional offering is a hankerchief. If the worshiper is a woman, she writes her name on it in red ink, then pinches it by its middle and drops it before the shrine before saying her name and the name of the one she desires, followed by the request that she "bless the effort." If the worshiper is a man, he writes his name in black ink and folds it in quarters, with the portion his name is on left facing upward and directed to be readable to the statue. The introductions and blessings are the same.\n- If a worshiper comes to a the shrine of Ishania Virgo and the one he prays to be attracted to has left a hankerchief there, that kerchief is used for the same ritual, with the new name written before the first. It is then the duty of a priest of Ishania to return the resigned kerchief to its original owner, usually with the blessing "Rejoice, for you are loved."\n- If this arrangement results in a pair of names where the first person did not pray to join with the second, it is deemed a bad omen, and the two are advised to be in no relationship for a month before praying again.\nIshania Amicus is usually prayed to when a friend is in danger or when a worshipper feels him/herself drifting from a close friend. Traditionally, a ring is offered without prayer. The ring is kissed and placed at the feet of the statue, and then the worshiper stands silently and meditates on memories of the friend until she/he feels it is enough.\nIshania Ego is usually prayed to when one fears for one's wellbeing. The worshiper is expected to painstakingly groom him/herself before coming to the shrine of Ishania Ego, and the traditional offering is a lock of the worshiper's hair. It is deemed inappropriate to pray to Ishania Ego for anyone else.\nIshania Patronis is prayed to for all other purposes. It is considered inappropriate to give Ishania Patronis an offering. One instead offers an exchange, making a request of the goddess and stating some variety of good thing that the worshipper will do 'to make it so.' Prayers that go unfulfilled are usually attributed to either a lack of sincerity in the prayer, a lack of sincerity in the good deed, or an insufficient deed done.\n=Attitudes Toward Other Gods=\nRaltonin is viewed as an ally to Ishania, but the church often worries that his martial bend will make him and his followers lose their humanity and fall from their high ideals.\nCaralil is viewed as an ally to Ishania, but the tendency of worshippers of Caralil to isolate themselves presents a problem to Ishania, and her church often tries to lure them into events and find romantic partners for them, with the belief that lonliness will destroy the spirit.\nBazzurdin is viewed as what becomes of a basically good person whose priorities are warped by being jaded. They have lost hope, and must be inspired if they are to ever do good.\nDopumeh is seen as woefully common. While the church of Ishania does not often blame Dopumeh for his seemingly morose philosophy, they are known for trying to argue the value of beauty, even if it is fleeting.\nTywekia is generally seen as dangerous, but tolerable. The idea of "proving" one's ability seems horridly egotistical to the average Ishanian, and they tend to associate that sort of self-importance with the loss of innocent life, but can generally see potential for such a philosophy to groom a very good person.\nGarshwynn is an enemy of Ishania, as they find the belief that any institution can be built based on one group of people declaring superiority over another to be repulsive, and dub any structure or society built by Garshwynn to be a society of slavers and slaves.\nLyca is an enemy of Ishania, as they see the philosophy as being based wholly on the wounding of others, often branding it sick and sadistic, and a thinly-veiled excuse to justify their inability to be good people.\nPazunish is an enemy of Ishania, as they see his culling of the herd as being a wanton and unforgivable spree of murder.\nThuun is generally responded to with caution. Ishanians know the power of Thuun, but don't generally ascribe it to 'wrath' so much as 'mismanagement', and they tend to simply be prepared for the possibilities, rather than at war.\nKarn is generally responded to with distaste. Karn represents destruction and consumption, when Ishania wishes to promote growth and reproduction. They even go so far as to call the dubbing of passion "firey" to be in poor taste.\nSylahisi is generally responded to with caution. Ishanians know the power of Sylahisi, but don't generally ascribe it to 'wrath' so much as 'mismanagement', and they tend to simply be prepared for the possibilities, rather than at war.\nUashyl is officially an ally with Ishania, but the two churches have very little contact with one another. When one is severely threatened, lines of communication tend to be opened and token assistance given, but they typically don't invest much in one another's prosperity.\n\n=Taboos=\nWhile Ishania is often portrayed in the nude, they are always created to conceal her privates. Attempting to look anyway is generally just taboo, but is overt blasphemy in the case of Ishania Meretrix\nIt is blasphemous to create an image of Ishania that does not conceal her privates. (leaves, hands, and wisps of hair are common tools to prevent this problem.)\nIt is blasphemous to offer any living being to Ishania, and doing so will typically result in being banished from the temple where the offering was given.\nIt is inappropriate for laymen to touch a depiction of Ishania Ego. Holy men may only do so to maintain the artwork.\nIt is inappropriate for laymen to touch the hips, thighs, or breasts of any depiction of Ishania. Holy men may only do so to maintain the artwork.\nIt is inappropriate to get blood on depictions of Ishania, excepting the Ishania Patronis.\n\n=Holy Days=\nThere are no specific days that're deemed worthy of special rememberance to Ishania. However, the spring equanox is said to be the best day for a marraige by the faith, and temples often offer their halls for various purposes when a wedding is held on the day, and communities where enough people have anniversaries on the day will have some kind of commemorative festivities on the day, often centered around a feast and announcing couples and how many years they've been together.\n\n=Church Activities=\nIshania's churches are notorious for throwing themselves almost completely into pet projects. While they are very good about seeing to the needs of their congregations, they do not often have programs or plans to reach out to the community at large. They do, however, often respond to any great uprisings of evil and attempt activity in politics and to influence policy of rulers. The leaders of Ishania's temples typically live very public lives, and often give their names to requests for mercenaries to assist in whatever pet project the church is funding at the time.
14005|Karn is the goddess of fire, worshipped widely among tribal and herding cultures.\n\nKarn is commonly associated with the virtue of courage.\n\nIn artwork, Karn is most often portrayed as a stern nude woman with arms crossed and flame for hair - typically also having complexion a few shades darker than whatever is common in the region that produced the work. In works meant for other purposes, her expression and posture sometimes change, but she is never shown as ashamed of her appearance, and sculpture often appears to be quite lewd in an effort to maintain the spirit of this tradition.\n\nKarn maintains a philosophy that vigor, passion, and rapid action make the most meaningful changes in the world. Her clergy will begrudgingly acknowledge the success of more conservative plans, but often insisting that they would have been vastly more successful if those who made the plans work were bolder.\n\nKarn's church also generally shuns social conventions and the notion of niceties. Fire is made a metaphor here, saying that people are brilliant and miraculous clusters of burning essence, but that too many stuff themselves into lanterns and are made slaves, unable to grow and unable to be seen beyond what pale light escapes the lantern's hood.\n\nKarn's worshippers tend to be evil, due to pleasant relations with - and some influence from - Lycan religion. Though the faith itself is largely based upon a mythology and warnings against becoming bridled down or complacent, they often argue for strength and personal development in a Lycan sense, especially enjoying colloqualisms like 'trial by fire.'\n\n=Aspects of Karn=\nThere are five commonly-worshipped aspects of Karn, with clergy divided roughly evenly between the various aspects. Among laymen, worship varies mostly by profession. Smiths and jewellers, for instance, are more likely to worship Conflare than Extermino, and soldiers would say the opposite.\n  Karn Defaeco represents fire as it purifies things that it touches. She is most often portrayed as having bright orange flames and being somewhat shorter than average, often sitting cross legged. Lamps that depict Defaeco - with the flame in the shape of the lamp's scalp - are often used by surgeons and healers to clean their tools.\n  Karn Candeo represents fire as it sheds light and reveals the truth of people. This aspect of Karn is the least likely to be shown as humanoid, but when she is, her skin is typically shown as glowing and golden or red.\n  Karn Tepidus represents fire as it warms and comforts. In artwork, Tepidus is often sitting with eyes closed and an expression of concentration. Artists often attempt to sexualize this aspect of Karn, but the clergy nearly universally scorns such depictions and will often aim to destroy such.\n  Karn Extermino represents fire as it destroys its surroundings, especially in situations where wildfire clears ground. In artwork, Extermino is usually shown as shouting with limbs ablaze - often with a wide stance and both arms held out and flexed. In sculpture, Extermino is almost exclusively made from polished obsidian.\n  Karn Conflare represents fire as it assists in the creation and crafting of objects - but not the act of crafting itself. She is most often portrayed as a young woman with a rigid posture and eyes aimed slightly upward. This image is often incorporated into smelters, as a way of trying to gain the goddess' favor.\n\n=Temples=\nTemples dedicated to Karn are typically built near natural sources of heat, especially volcanic vents (which are especially significant in divination) and boiling hot springs (seen as sites where Karn is triumping over her nemesis).\nTemples to Karn Candeo typically double as calendars, using an oculus in the ceiling and the shadows it casts to mark the equinoxes and solstices. Beyond these distinctions, temples to Karn are largely based upon artistic vision and the availability of igneus rock.\n\n=Praying to Karn=\nPrayers offered to Karn are not often organized or especially codified. Myths involving Karn typically portray her as a violent, vain, and shameless woman, typically flaunting various kinds of prowess in the faces of the other gods. As a result, her church often teaches that any occasion is a valid occasion to pray to and make offerings to Karn.\nHowever, the same advice is followed by the notion that the truly faithful would be able to succeed by their own power. In a similar vein, none of Karn's divine spellcasters pray to Karn or ask her for assistance; those who take an ecclesiastic path learn to avoid such acts, and to only offer thanks to Karn when her favor is visible and to give gifts regularly.\nAll offerings to Karn are burned, even those that are not flammible (they are offered on a bed of something that does burn.) Divine spellcasters of Uashyl are especially favored offerings, often being subject to various kinds of physical and mental torture before being ritually slaughtered and burned as an offering to Karn. Other animals are generally killed quickly and mercifully, with the bodies burned as an offering, though non-divine-casting intelligent beings are almost never sacrificed.\n\n=Attitudes Toward Other Faiths=\nRaltonin is seen as an enemy, both by proxy - due to Karn's favorable relationship with Lyca - and by ideology, in that Raltonytes typically place restrictive laws on people and their lives.\nIshania is seen as an enemy only by proxy; while Karn's churches typically acknowledge the value of love and affection, Ishania's association with Uashyl and Karn's association with Lyca force unpleasant interactions, though not often outright hostility.\nCaralil is seen as an enemy, though only because the churches are prone to hurling accusations at one another; Caralil's faithful often adore forests and artwork while Karn's faithful believe they clear the way for greatness in razing such things. While the resulting accusations rarely result from actual vandalism, the words are enough to create sporratic hostility - especially from Karn's side.\nBazzurdin is generally ignored; Bazzurdin's faith is often seen as an oppressive force, but also one that respects the right of Karn's church to be. They are, thus, not an especially pressing obstacle, and are typically let be while Karn focuses on bigger enemies.\nDopumeh is mocked, but generally let be. Dopumeh's pacifism is seen as weakness and cowardice; Karn's faithful often try to goad priests of Dopumeh into competitions, but are rarely successful.\nTywekia is often seen as a potential - but unrealized - ally. Tywekia's philosophy of gaining personal truth unique to the self rings true to many of Karn's faithful, but the notion of a base of an absurd world seems - humorously enough - absurd to Karn's church.\nGarshwynn is called an enemy, due to the class stratification encouraged by Garshwynn's faith. While Karn's church never argues that all people are equal, they generally identify Garshwynn's ideal as a mechanism that prevents people from showing their inner fire, and it is thus something to be sabotaged.\nLyca is called an ally, specifically in the shared ideologies and the godesses' dominion over fire.\nPazunish is generally treated as highly suspicious, as the reaction to weak people given by Pazunish is seen as heinously severe. While Karn's faithful can typically see the logic of Pazunish's faith, those who practice it are treated as if they've good ideals gone slightly insane.\nThuun is generally called an ally, mostly in that Karn's and Thuun's elements are seen as working together to produce vulcanism.\nSylahisi is generally called an ally, mostly in that Karn's and Sylahisi's elements work together to produce traditional flames and - in windy and dry times - firestorms.\nUashyl is Karn's nemesis; Uashyl's church is seen as a threat to all that is good, and the two churches fight one another with great intensity at nearly every opportunity.\n\n=Taboos=\nIt is blasphemy to create depictions of Karn that are made unnatural or awkward for the sake of modesty; while lewd depictions are seen as 'lesser' work, those that are obviously trying not to be are dubbed blasphemous and destroyed.\nThe fires on depictions of Karn must never be put out, and it is seen as a sign of misfortune if one runs out of feul. A temple is generally seen as tainted if a statue within runs out of feul.\nIf holy ground to Karn catches fire, none of the flames may be doused; they must be allowed to burn out.\nIf a depiction of Karn catches fire, none of the flames may be doused; they must be allowed to burn out.\n\n=Holy Days=\nThe Summer Solstice is the only day held as especially holy to Karn's faith. On this day, worshippers travel to the temples, where a series of contests of physical and mental prowess are held, with a prize offered to the winner. Traditionally, the winner also takes one of the losers as a lover or servant for the year to come; in some regions, a second set of playoffs are held to determine who the least effective competetor is, and that person, specifically, is made a servant. In areas of dominance by lawful faiths, this tradition often officially states that it is just manual labor, though the practice rarely changes.\n\n=Church Activities=\nThe primary thrust of Karn's church activities is the expansion of the faith and the destruction of Uashyl's church. However, their strategy is to try to be highly-visible and popular, so the church is wont to flamboyant displays and shameless recruiting as part of their activities. Karn's churches often partake of acts of heroism - and gloating about the heroism - as part of these schemes.
14006|Lyca is the goddess of strength and wisdom, worshipped widely among scholars.\n\nLyca is commonly associated with the virtue of wisdom.\n\nIn artwork, Lyca is most often portrayed as a steely-eyed goddess bearing some sort of two-handed weapon - most often a greatsword. She is typically dressed modestly, with her armor often including a long black skirt. If she is wearing normal clothing, she is typically shown in a high black collar. She is also associated with orchids - especially white and blue ones.\n\nLyca maintains that strength is the result of overcoming hardship, and that the acts of compassion championed by her adversaries are, in fact, ways for those showing the compassion to delude themselves into the belief that the world is made better by their efforts. Lyca asserts that the right thing to do is the difficult thing to do: which is to see to it that all people have adversity to overcome and that all people have the means to overcome it.\n\nLyca's church generally plans for a generation in most of its activities; as such, most events and conflicts are ignored or dismissed as being fleeting in nature, and the church's individual members often focus on personal growth instead.\n\n=Aspects of Lyca=\nThere are five aspects of Lyca commonly regarded as representing part of her whole in Mundasia. As with the other faiths, these aspects are understood to be ways to help mortals understand a being far more complex than they are, rather than as genuinely distinct beings.\n  Lyca Exulto represents personal growth and personal improvement, as well as the sense of accomplishment gained after succeeding in a diffucult task. She is typically dressed or armored formally in art, and always wears some form of decoration on her head - most commonly crowns, tiaras, or laurel weaths, depending on the culture.\n  Lyca Insulto represents the imposition of adversity onto people, especially the bringing of hardship to the exceptionally fortunate. She is typically shown as a pale and expressionless woman with hands draped over the crossbar of a two-handed sword.\n  Lyca Provisio represents both planning and scheming, especially when focused upon the long term. Though deception is not specifically part of the Lycan faith, the contrast with Bazzudrin often gives Lyca Provisio such a connotation. In artwork, Lyca Provisio is shown as holding two books, one opened and one closed; in cultures that prefer scrolls, she typically wears a scroll case on a bandolier and holds an open one in her hands.\n  Lyca Acies represents insight and counterintuitive knowledge, and is the primary aspect cited when discussing the destructive effects of misplaced charity. This aspect of Lyca is always shown with piercing blue eyes, often in works that mute color in the rest of the presentation.\n  Lyca Continentia represents self-control and temperance. She is rarely armored or armed, and will generally be shown expressionless in a highly-chaotic scene.\n\n=Temples of Lyca=\nLycan temples are often built primarily for utility. As a rule, altars and pyres are the only permanent furniture in a Lycan temple, with the seating being light weight and - ideally - able to be stacked and stored. Some temples opt for small throw-rugs as seating, which are generally rolled up and stored after use. The temple interiors are, thus, often rearranged for varying purposes, both military and domestic.\n\n=Praying to Lyca=\nPrayers to Lyca are generally a three part barter: those praying first identify a problem that can be addressed or overcome and make a request - the faith generally calls such holy pacts 'tribulations'; they then attempt to overcome the obstacle and return to the temple with an offering for Lyca. It is said to be favorable if the endeavor is successful, but it is not especially unfavorable if it is not, unless someone has died as a part of the effort.\nSacrifices vary based on context, but animal and human sacrifice both exist within the faith. Animals are typically chosen by their symbolism; intelligent beings are only sacrificed if they have commited a crime with irreperable consqeuences: such as rape or murder, often in lieu of a more formal legal execution.\nLyca Exulto is generally prayed to after a great success, especially one of invention or innovation. Worshippers are expected to wear their nicest clothes for such a prayer, and those whose innovation brings a great social good will generally be annointed by a priestess as a part of the prayer. The typical sacrifice is a dove.\nLyca Insulto is generally prayed to before performing an act on behalf of the church, especially efforts to 'normalize' people whose success or fortune is seen as undeserved, such as those born into wealth -- especially those who turn to hedonism as part of that success. The tribulation is generally to force the person to overcome a hardship, and the sacrifice something that once belonged to that person.\nLyca Provisio is prayed to as a part of starting or managing businesses and, occasionally, as part of parenting. It is generally seen as a flaw to have whatever the subject of the prayer is be the tribulation; acts of self-improvement are deemed best, and an animal sacrafice is preferred.\nLyca Acies is prayed to in response to confusion; typically, the tribulation is a mental challenge that is carried out in darkness or while blindfolded, and the sacrifice is an owl.\nLyca Continentia is prayed to when a worshipper feels his or her grip on self-control to be slipping; though tradition varies by locale, the tribulation is often to suffer a brutal chiding by a holy person of Lyca, followed by a week of chastity. Sacrifices vary, but cats and birds are most common.\n\n=Attitudes Toward Other Faiths=\nRaltonin is seen as an enemy; his attitudes toward the building and protection of society are generally seen as very dangerous to Lycans, and as creating an ultimately weak and unproductive society.\nIshania is Lyca's nemesis. Her focus upon the soothing of emotional states is called coddling, and is seen as the greatest disservice one can perform, in that it forces people to suffer their same weaknesses repeatedly, as they fail to grow with every instance.\nCaralil is seen as an enemy for much of the same reasons as Ishania, but are seen as less threatening in that the focus of Caralil upon artistic growth is a mitigation of their disguised cruelty.\nBazzurdin is regarded with some ambivalence. Though his churches produce a setting wherein people can flourish, his church also presents growth and improvement as a material - rather than a personal - achievement. Arguments are frequent, but hostilities less so.\nDopumeh is generally respected, but also not regarded as especially significant. The faith encourages personal growth and development, but does not bring that improvement to the world; Lycans will, thus, often be sure that Dopumeh's church is able to grow, but will rarely be officially allied with the church.\nTywekia is seen as a slightly-more-dangerous version of Dopumeh's faith. The concept of truth being personal seems valid, but the concept of an absurd world seems to be an effort to remove accountability to the Lycan. They look to the Lycan as power waiting to be misdirected.\nGarshwynn is usually a political ally. Lycans will often serve as a spiritual and philosophical influence over a political system built by Garshwynn's image, which the Lycans will often see as less-than-ideal, but also as the least of evils.\nPazunish is generally seen much as an unstable, but well-intentioned, sibling. The church of Lyca will often work with the church of Pazunish, specifically to try to turn their crusade against weakness toward those who can not be redeemed, typically by extending their taboo against harming children to those who are 'spiritually children.'\nKarn is called an ally, albeit a volatile one; the shared dominion over fire and shared enemies of Uashyl and Ishania make the two churches work together in times of strife.\nThuun is, as a rule, ignored; as he represents a force of nature and allies with a deity who Lyca holds no special opinions about.\nSylahisi is, as a rule, ignored; as she represents a force of nature and allies with a deity who Lyca holds no special opinions about.\nUashyl is, for the most part, an enemy by proxy. While Lycans will try to let Uashyl's church be outside of the presence of Karn's church, the two will tend to have hostilities in the presence of Karn's church, as Lycans would generally rather keep Karn's church about than Uashyl's.\n\n=Taboos=\nIt is blasphemous to show affection - especially romantic affection - inside of a Lycan temple.\nIt is blasphemous to interrupt a tribulation; however, this taboo is not generally observed if the tribulation is traveling or passing through a dangerous locale, if those involved meet by chance.\nIt is taboo to wear flamboyant clothing in a Lycan temple; however, exception is generally made for vestments of other churches.\nIt is taboo to help anyone - even someone who is horribly injured or disabled - through the door to a temple of Lyca.\n\n=Holy Days=\nLyca's church holds regular holy days midway through the week. These days are reserved for reflection and refocusing, as well as the potential to revise and rework plans. Holy people generally serve as counsellors and therapists on these days, being careful not to try to convince the faithful to grow without doing anything for them.\nLyca's faithful also generally participate in Karn's competitions on the Summer solstice, though they tend to look on the prize of the competitions with some distaste.\n\n=Church Activities=\nLyca's churches will generally make very few official actions beyond establishing themselves and maintaining whatever responsibilities they've gained for themselves. Grand gestures are generally only carried out by fringe elements in the church - and when that happens, it is usually without the official sanction of the church. Lycans generally like to plan far ahead, will attempt to guess the moves of any others who can influence outcomes, and will judge the validity of actions based on how they will impact the next generation as a whole.
14007|Pazunish is the god of destruction, entropy, and the hunt, holding small cult-like followings in many contexts.\n\nPazunish rejects the concept of virtues as traits of one's person, and his followers say that all that matters is that which is still noticed in distant years.\n\nPortrayals of Pazunish vary significantly by region and by artist. Pazunish's portrayal rotates between predatory and regal, sometimes even including animalistic features. Pazunish is never armored, and is rarely armed.\n\nPazunish teaches that the progress of a species - including the intelligent races - is dependent upon the natural cycles of the world. Those who are strongest (or, more accurately, most adaptable) survive, and create progeny. Those who are not strong - or adaptable - are intended to die, or at least to have no children, for the sake of the whole species.\n\nInstitutions of Pazunish's faith see this process as being disrupted by a great number of forces, and feel the need to intervene when circumstances seek to overturn this natural order. They generally acknowledge that their actions are in poor taste, but insist that the end result is survival of a species for generations.\n\n=Aspects of Pazunish=\n  Pazunish Opilionis is the representation of a superior watching over the meek. He is often portrayed with a crooked staff and especially rugged hands.\n  Pazunish Praedatoris is the representation of a hunter culling the weak from a herd. He is frequently portrayed with animalistic features, especially claws and either fangs or a maw.\n  Pazunish Lupa is the representation of motherhood as it appears in nature. This aspect is typically represented as a she-wolf with exaggerated teats, but it can occasionally be a primitive female humanoid.\n  Pazunish Incrementum is the personification of the progress of a species through generations. The aspect is often shown as a highly-idealized nude version of whatever species is depicting him. This aspect is also occasionally shown as female.\n  Pazunish Pectoris is the personification of the contribution of the soul to the tangible world, especially through insight and visions. He is typically portrayed as an idealized man with a hand over his heart or with his fingertips touching his temple.\n\n=Temples of Pazunish=\nTemples to Pazunish are typically squat earthen structures, containing sculptures made from marble and granite. The doors are typically low, requiring worshippers to bend or crawl to enter, and guards - often unarmed - are typically posted inside of the door. The interiors of these structures are usually very earthy, and frequently make use of living roots and trees to help make the walls. When this happens, the non-living materials are blackened and the living materials left alone to help them stand out.\n\n=Praying to Pazunish=\nPrayers to Pazunish generally consist of efforts to appease the deity, in hopes that favors will be given and/or wrath will be spared. As such, there are few occasions when one would be expected to offer prayers to Pazunish, but many occasions when people actually do. As a rule, priests and priestesses are the only people who ask for anything in exchange for their prayers, though they have been known to perform sacrafices in the names of others, when situations become dire enough.\nIt is custom to offer some kind of live sacrafice with prayers to Pazunish. The same customs dictate that any sacrafice given must be caught by the person offering it, and it is deemed best if it is the weakest, slowest, or least intelligent of a group that is brought in. Often, the faithful of Pazunish will simply attack a herd (or raid a village, if they seek intelligent sacrafices), and whichever one happens to get caught is seen as the weakest -- or, at least, as the one least able to survive.\nSacrafices are generally graded based upon the degree to which Pazunish must be appeased; as a rule, intelligent beings are not offered unless something has happened where the faithful believe they have offended Pazunish somehow. Otherwise, larger and more intelligent animals -- such as monkeys and dolphins -- are saved for very serious situations, and daily prayers offer small and prolific creatures -- such as worms, insects, and rodents.\n\n=Attitudes Toward Other Faiths=\nRaltonin is seen as an enemy of Pazunish; his support of royalty and order for the defense of entire communities is seen as a cancer on the survival of all intelligent life, allowing the species to degrade into helplessness.\nCaralil is applauded for his emphasis on self-sufficiency and scolded for superficiality in the same breath. Pazunish will fight against Caralil when opportunities present, but regularly ignores the church when there are more pressing matters.\nBazzurdin is seen as an enemy of Pazunish, much for the same reason as Raltonin. Though the church does not intentionally defend its weakest members, the order it produces is always a sort that gives the best and worst of a group the same protection.\nDopumeh is treated with ambivelence. To Pazunish, they seem to either be expressing a unique kind of strength and virtue or to be thinly disguising cowardice. Though Pazunish does not try to destroy the church, his members regularly try to test the faithful of Dopumeh, and applaud them when they keep their virtues.\nIshania is seen as an enemy of Pazunish, promoting compassion, which most of the church of Pazunish sees as weakness, and charity, which Pazunish teaches is ultimately destructive. They are treated as villains plotting the downfall of all people, though without the drive of Raltonin.\nTywekia is generally ignored by Pazunish, being seen as a potential ally, but also being seen as one who is avoiding the "big" questions in favor of experimentation and reflection.\nGarshwynn is seen as a dangerous, but tenuous, ally. Though they agree on many important fronts, especially that some people are simply better than others, they regularly disagree on what actions need to be taken, and Garshwynn's possessive treatment of the weaker members of their species is seen as potentially very dangerous, and able to turn into something destructive.\nLyca is seen as an ally in most respects, but Lyca is often thought of as not taking her philosophy far enough. It is all fine and good to try to train and strengthen people, but there are some who, by Pazunish's teachings, simply need to be culled from the herd for the good of all.\nThuun is an elemental deity, and thus represents a dangerous primal force that should not be disturbed when it is dormant, but should be resisted with great intensity should it act against the wishes of all.\nKarn is an elemental deity, and thus represents a dangerous primal force that should not be disturbed when it is dormant, but should be resisted with great intensity should it act against the wishes of all.\nSylahisi is an elemental deity, and thus represents a dangerous primal force that should not be disturbed when it is dormant, but should be resisted with great intensity should it act against the wishes of all.\nUashyl is an elemental deity, and thus represents a dangerous primal force that should not be disturbed when it is dormant, but should be resisted with great intensity should it act against the wishes of all.\n\n=Tabboos=\nIt is blasphemy to Pazunish to harm any child.\nIt is also blasphemy to Pazunish to eat veal or eggs.\nPhysical challenges are deemed "unclean" unless they are performed nude and unarmed, requiring rites of purification afterwards.\n\n=Holy Days=\nThe faithful of Pazunish do not respect any particular holy days, viewing every day as a struggle to build and maintain the world. Often, the faithful will use the temple as a social gathering place after the day's work is finished, and will dedicate a small portion of time to prayer before changing to more typical social activities, though no particular days carry any special rituals.\n\n=Church Activities=\nThe church of Pazunish is heavily involved in whatever affairs are about in the regions they arrive in, even if the church only has a few members. They view it as a responsibility to try to make some positive change where they can, sometimes driving members to quite severe acts -- something the church officially discourages, as a lack of thought can make the actions misdirected and thus ultimately destructive, but rarely punishes.
14008|Raltonin is the god of knighthood, nobility, and kings, holding a strong following in most developed cities.\n\nRaltonin is most commonly associated with the virtue of altruism.\n\nRaltonin is portrayed as male, often with a curled moustache and a pointed beard. His hair is always curly, and typically blonde, red, or light brown. When protrayed as a statue, gold leaf is often used to decorate his hair. His complexion varies by the region the artwork is made in, usually reflecting the local population.\n\nHe teaches that virtue is a personal journey, but that the fruits of the journey should be shared with the community. Charity, mercy, hope, and faith build communities; courage, justice, nobility, and power preserve them. Those eight concepts are taught as virtues that all knights should aspire to, and the influence of his teachings has produced mimicing knighthoods among the churches of Ishania and Bazzurdin.\n\n=Aspects of Raltonin=\nRaltonin has eight aspects that are worshipped; they are not presented as being of any kind of heirachy, as all of them together are said to contribute to the ideal warrior.\n  Raltonin Fortitudo is the personification of courage, espeically when defending one's home. He is the only aspect of Raltonin shown wearing the church's livery; he always carries a shield, and typically holds a knightly sword and wears brightly colored armor.\n  Raltonin Iustitia is the personification of justice, especially when the justice redeems a criminal. He is typically shown in highly-polished armor accented blue and purple, and carries a maul, often modified to resemble a giant gavel.\n  Raltonin Clementia is the personification of mercy. He is generally portrayed as wearing blue and silver armor and holding a torch or a censer.\n  Raltonin Liberalis is the personification of generosity. He is generally shown as unarmored, wearing bright clothing and holding some variety of food, sometimes a very large loaf of bread or a tray of food, depending on the region.\uRaltonin Fides is the personification of faith. He is generally portrayed as being unarmed and unarmored, typically wearing nothing more than a long, colorful loin cloth.\n  Raltonin Ingenuus is the personification of nobility. He is generally portrayed holding a scepter of some variety, wearing a some kind of regal robes or cloak. If he is armored, the armor is typically a bright royal purple.\n  Raltonin Spero is the personification of hope. He generally wears bright silver armor, somtimes accented with purple or blue. He carries a sword in his right hand and a lamp in his left.\n  Raltonin Opulens is the personification of power. He wears rich blue armor accented violet and carries a large two-handed sword which is often held horizontally, so it may be used in rituals.\nThere are very few circumstances where a live sacrafice would be appropriate, but it is custom to, before a vigil for a creation or coronation ceremony, sacrafice a bull to Raltonin. The bull is usually sacraficed by cutting the neck and cooked; the families of the noble-to-be eat the meat, and the testicles of the animal are usually served to the noble-to-be, cooked and sliced into disks.\n\n=Temples=\nRaltonin's temples are typically arranged to appear as a maltese cross from within, and the shrines to each aspect of the god are placed in the eight corners of the main room, with space for feats either in a connecting building or on another floor of the temple. There is no special order for the arrangement of the shrines, and all aspects of Raltonin are typically said to be equally important to the ideal man.\n\n=Praying to Raltonin=\nRaltonin Fortitudo is generally prayed to before a battle, and is a favorite before defensive battles. The prayer is usually spoken, facing a representation of Raltonin. The supplicant first draws and presents whatever weapon is to be used in the battle and then recalls friends and relatives who are to be protected in the battle, asking for Raltonin's assistance in the endevor.\nRaltonin Iustitia is generally prayed to as part of ceremony. Judges and nobles often invoke Raltonin Iustitia and ask that he "guide and focus" their understanding, so they may give a fair verdict.\nRaltonin Clementia is generally prayed to by prisoners, and thus has little associated ceremony. He is, however, often invoked as matters of argument, when attempting to say that someone should be spared.\nRaltonin Liberalis is generally prayed to by organizers of charities and people attempting to do social good. One takes a small portion of whatever food or drink the statue holds at the shrine and eats/drinks it, then tells the statue of what goals the charity has.\nRaltonin Fides is rarely prayed to. He is typically cited and invoked as matters of advice or argument. As he is the symbol of all belief in the power of the gods, he is used to try to temper arrogance or overly-ambitious behavior. When he is prayed to directly, it is often by those seeking purpose in life, who will ask Raltonin Fides - often informally and in an impromptu manner - for a sign. Of course, stories of his resopnses - or lack of response - abound.\nRaltonin Ingenuus is prayed to by rulers, though he is less popular than Garshwynn in most practices. Raltonin is still the preferred deity to invoke in all coronation and creation ceremonies, and the ceremonies often involve holding vigil at one of his shrines for the night before.\nRaltonin Spero is the most widely-prayed-to aspect of Raltonin. Prayers generally begin by lighting his lamp and kneeling before the shrine, then speaking one's prayer before wetting the thumb and forefinger (using a basin of water, if one is built with the shrine, or by licking them) and extinguishing the lamp with them. Burns are taken as an ill sign. The most common prayer is for the wellbeing of family who has gone to war, but all sorts of prayers, especially for things or people who have gone missing, are common.\nRaltonin Opulens is prayed to most often by athletes. These prayers often come immediately before or the night before a competition. It is deemed inappropriate to pray to Opulens without showing the arms, but practice dictates that the athlete show as much of one's body as he or she can bear, often leading to supplicants arriving in only a robe so they may shed it and pray in the nude. The prayer itself is often\n\n=Attitudes Toward Other Faiths=\nIshania is seen as well-meaning, but unambitious. It is wonderful to teach others to find love and compassion, but leaving it there is a waste.\nCaralil is seen as a dismissable danger; while the notion of allowing all things to be dominated by subjective "artistic" forces risks ruining countless lives, the progress of "art" is slow and unaggressive. Caralil's church merely needs to be watched.\nBazzurdin is seen as an ally for most purposes, but the Raltonytes tend to view Bazzurdytes as uninspired. They organize things well; they respect peoples' privacy; they allow trade and scholarship to flourish; they don't care about poverty or white-collar crime. If they aren't supplemented, lives will be ruined.\nDopumeh is seen as a defeatist. Though he seems to have mastered the humble man's virtues, he fails at all others, and represents a tragically wasted potential.\nTywekia is seen as both dangerous and crazy. The idea of living in an unexplainable and uncontrollable - perhaps unreal - world allows her worshippers to remourselessly take on all sorts of acts, often to the detriment of innocents.\nGarshwynn is hated, but respected. They do a fairly good job of managing their holdings, combating poverty, and keeping sound defenses, but they are horrifying foes to face, often bringing venoms and diseases to the field and slaughtering prisoners.\nLyca is believed to be someone to be treated as a criminal element. Lyca's followers regularly visit all variety of foul things upon innocents, but they at least generally let those people live. They are seen as vastly more threatening when they join the efforts of a secular organization, but otherwise deserve to be impeded and captured when found.\nPazunish is a hated enemy, combated at every opportunity. Pazunish is seen as a swarm of cruel and heartless murderers.\nThuun is an elemental deity, and thus does not deserve to be hunted as Pazunish, but is an enemy whenever encountered.\nKarn is an elemental deity, and thus does not deserve to be hunted as Pazunish, but is an enemy whenever encountered.\nSylahisi is an elemental deity, and thus does not deserve to be hunted as Pazunish, but is an enemy whenever encountered.\nUashyl is an elemental deity, and thus does not deserve to be hunted as Pazunish, but is an enemy whenever encountered.\n\n=Taboos=\nThe handling of attributes of Raltonin's statues is deemed blasphemous for laymen, and is generally an inappropriate act for clergy, who only do so when necessary for maintenance, and often do so in private.\nThe doors to a temple of Raltonin may never be locked. Even if the temple if besieged, people inside will hold the doors shut rather than bar them.\nIt is inappropriate to bar any peaceful person entrance to a temple of Raltonin, and is said to invite a horrible curse.\nRomantic relationships between faithful of Raltonin and laypeople are generally taboo. The church typically expects that priests and paladins of Raltonin will marry another ordained person, either of Raltonin's church or Ishania's.\n\nHoly Days\nRaltonin's church has a holy day at the end of every week. On these days, a feast is held for the good of the community. All living near a temple of Raltonin are given an open invitation to these feasts, and those who simply happen across one are invited anyway. The food is generally of good quality, but it also reflects the availability of foods.\n\n=Church Activities=\nRaltonin's church generally splits its funds evenly between four projects. The first being the maintenance of the temple they are in and the investment in the construction of new temples. The second quarter goes to financing the weekly feasts, the third to building and repairing housing and providing public services to the surrounding area, and the fourth to financing assaults and wars on things that threaten the city. These numbers often shift toward the more warlike in times of open war, but the funding for the feasts is never reduced.
14009|Sylahisi is the goddess of the air and wind, worshipped widely among tribal and herding cultures.\n\nSylahisi is most commonly associated with the virtue of arete.\n\nSylahisi is usually portrayed as an absent-gazed young woman with ivory skin, long silver hair, and pale blue eyes. In many depictions, she is given the traits of birds, having wings, feathers, or taloned feat; though she is always given facial features that are seen as attractive to the culture that produces the art.\n\nSylahisi teaches that attachments are folly, and that the tendancy of people to cling to things that can be made to last is the cause of downfalls. She states that the path to success, and by implication happiness, is to yield attachments to all things and to simply make use of whatever is available at any given time. Though many claim that this would cause one to never have the proper tool for the job, her priestesses often point to deserts, where the wind strips and shapes rocks simply by having decided to blow.\n\nSylahisi's teachings often include insisting upon confidence, though such is appended by her clergy, and makes no appearances in the traditions. The cited scripture tells the worshippers to never charge at half tilt, as a great force for a short time is more likely to make a difference than a weak force for a long time.\n\n=Aspects of Sylahisi=\nThere are four aspects of Sylahisi that are most commonly worshipped, though the infrastructure around Navigo is by far the most powerful.\n  Sylahisi Prosilio is the embodiment of explosive energy and sudden bursts, especially when a rough impact can accomplish something that a steady force cannot. This aspect is most often given taloned feet, though she is occasionally simply shown as extremely muscular.\n  Sylahisi Navigo is the force of the wind as it assists trade and travel, especially by sailing. This aspect is most often given wings and featers, and her hair is usually shown as being tossed by the wind, though never in such a way that it conceals her identity.\n  Sylahisi Dissimulo is the wind in its oppressive forces, especially when skies are overcast and the wind makes speaking impossible. This aspect is never given wings, but she is usually shown as floating or flying despite this.\n  Sylahisi Niteo is the force of the skies as they illuminate, clean, and clear. In artwork, this aspect is given varied representation, but a depiction of Sylahisi sun bathing in the nude is most common in sculptures, while murals painted on ceilings with many depictions around an oculus are the most common in paintings.\n\n=Temples=\nTemples to Sylahisi are always open-air temples, though they rarely have more development than a single shrine and a floor; however, temples meant to honor niteo sometimes take the shape of a round roof held up by a series of pillars, with spaces given for offerings all around inside, and worship taking place at the altar shone on by the oculus.\n\n=Praying to Sylahisi=\nSylahisi is most often prayed to on the transitions between the seasons, though her association with the skies and the weather also make her a goddess frequently prayed to for relief during droughts or floods. Traditionally, a sacrafice is offered at the start of each season, but there is no written preference beyond that priests and priestesses of Thuun are excellent offerings, and the church of Sylahisi is often prepared to keep the sort as prisoners until the start of a season. Otherwise, all animals - except those that can fly - are seen as valid to sacrafice.\nSylahisi Navigo is most often prayed to on the first day of Spring, asking her to bring the calmer, more constant winds of the spring time and to keep the winter weather away; this day is fairly significant in ports that ice over in the winter, as their trade (and sometimes survival) depends on a constant thaw.\nSylahisi Niteo is most often prayed to on the first day of Summer, asking to be spared the scorching heat of the sun and to be provided with life-sustaining warmth for the season. It is deemed a bad omen if it rains on this day, and a good omen if the weather is fair enough to allow the faithful to attend skyclad.\nSylahisi Prosilio is most often prayed to on the first day of Autumn, asking her to spare the wrath of autumn storms; she is also prayed to after hurricanes, as they are believed to be signs of her anger.\nSylahisi Dissimulo is most often prayed to on the first day of Winter, asking her to be merciful to the faithful and wrathful to the blasphemous during the cold season.\n\n=Attitudes Toward Other Deities=\nRaltonin is seen as a dangerous adversary, but also one whose focus and determination makes them easy to scatter with the occasional application of severe force.\nIshania is seen as a deity who can be ignored. Though the church of Sylahisi sees the importance of love and personal attachments, issues of sexuality and child rearing as just as often encounters of chance in communities with a strong influence from Sylahisi.\nCaralil is seen as potentially dangerous, and typically called well-equipped to be so, though they lack the presence to worry Sylahisi's church in most cases, and conflicts tend to become a series of acts of sabotage.\nBazzurdin is called an enemy by proxy; as Bazzurdin is allied with Thuun, who is Sylahisi's hated rival. Sylahisi's church will, thus, make opportunistic attacks on Bazzurdin's church, but will rarely pursue any acts that mean to entirely destroy the church.\nDopumeh is treated with a great deal of sympathy by Sylahisi's church, but is also seens as too fatalistic to be effective.\nTywekia is an ally of Sylahisi, the two churches seeing one another as massive forces that result in mutual benefit, though they share only a few values. Sylahisi's church will thus aid Tywekians when in distress, but they usually do so by killing or destroying whatever was causing them harm.\nGarshwynn is seen as a dangerous enemy whose habits try to disrupt the natural habits of the elements. Buildings dedicated to Garshwynn tend to take some harrassment from Sylahisi, but the tensions rarely move beyond the mutual understanding that fighting is possible.\nLyca is typically ignored by Sylahisi's faithful; though they agree on some fundamental aspects, like the value of strength, Sylahisi's church tends to view strength, by all of its definitions, as a natural ability that does not need cultivation.\nPazunish is seen as an enemy, largely because Pazunish's philosophy often leads individual members of both churches into violent conflicts. Sylahisi's church will work together against Pazunish with the mutual belief that they'd rather not be the ones targeted by Pazunish.\nThuun is Sylahisi's arch rival; Sylahisi's church will make trouble for Thuun's church at every opportunity, and will break into violence and attempt to capture his clergy to make into sacrafices if there are no forces preventing as much.\nKarn is called an ally of Sylahisi, as a number of tales describe the two deities working together to create the natural world, though the alliance is fairly cool, and the church of Sylahisi doesn't feel particularly attached to Karn.\nUashyl is an ally of Sylahisi, though the two churches don't help one another particularly often. There is plain evidence of the synergy between Sylahisi and Uashyl in the natural world, but the other relations of the faiths prevent the two from being particularly close.\n\n=Taboo=\nIt is seen as blasphemy to hide one's face in a temple of Sylahisi\nIt is also blasphemous to reverse any wardrobe malfunctions that occur in the temples. Leaving specifically to correct one is seen as better, but the appropriate response is said to be to finish one's business before leaving.\nDepictions of Sylahisi are never to be allowed to touch the ground; they are always elevated for presentation, and any that do touch the ground are usually destroyed and replaced.\nFailing to wash one's feet before approaching a shrine of Sylahisi is seen as disrespectful.\n\n=Holy Days=\nThe first day of each season is a holy day for Sylahisi, typically requiring a trip to the nearest shrine or temple for the faithful. Places with a strong presence of Sylahisi will typically have four shrines positioned outside of the settlement for this reason, though her following is strongest in fairly small communities, so they tend to not be especially grand structures. There are rarely grand gestures or celebrations associated with these days unless a special sacrafice is being given, but said sacrafices are said to bring good fortune and fertility, with night-time activities following suit.\n\n=Church Activities=\nThe church of Sylahisi is typically more interested in maintaining its war with Thuun's church than anything else. Though they will be known to take some role in the community if it is desparately needed, they will generally take a lazzez-faire approach to things that do not require a severe and heavyhanded solution.
14010|Thuun is the god of the earth, worshipped widely among tribal and herding cultures.\n\nThuun is most commonly associated with the virtue of prudence.\n\nThuun is typically portrayed as a completely hairless man with a thin, but muscular, body. He is most often shown as having brown or grey skin with gem stones for eyes; typically, his expression is stoic and his jaw is square.\n\nThuun teaches that dedication and stubborness are virtues, not flaws. The notion that quitters never win and winners never quit permiates his philosophy, and his clergy will often speak about the merit of making a situation work over looking for a favorable situation.\n\n=Aspects of Thuun=\n  Thuun Fimus represents the soil, especially as it applies to agriculture. He teaches the value of patience and nurturing of situations, especially when things are initially quite bleak. Farmland is the chosen metaphor for this, in that fields are bare long before they carry crops. He is typically portrayed as having ruddy brown skin and clear crystal eyes, standing nude with arms crossed.\n  Thuun Calx represents stone, especially as it can be built into shelter or support. He teaches that the best support, the best shelter, and the best defense are in places that do not move. He is typically portrayed with flecked grey skin, with hands on his hips or clasped behind his back.\n  Thuun Ferrum represents metals, especially iron, steel, and useful metals used to make tools and weapons. He teaches of the fruits of labor and the value of good tools and proper materials. He is typically potrayed with his hands on his hips, with extremely dark brown - sometimes jet black - skin and ruby eyes.\n  Thuun Crystallus represents crystals and glass, especially those that have unique functions, such as quartz or brimstone. He is typically portrayed as being a very light grey, with glass eyes and hands held up with palms facing outward. He teaches of the value of enginuity and experimentation, and that those things that look the most mundane may become invaluable tools when treated properly. As a metaphor, this is often applied to the raising of children, in a very "ugly duckling" esque tale.\n  Thuun Oleum represents coal, oil, and wood. He teaches that the earth is bountiful, and one need only dig to find items of great utility: things that can provide or quench fire, things that can hold water or keep it away, and things that can stop the wind. His coloration varies from area to area, largely based upon the resources available, but he is always polished to a high gloss and shown with hands out and palms up.\n\n=Temples=\nThuun's church has very few churches, preferring instead to have a series of shrines dedicated to aspects of the deity.\nShrines to Thuun Fimus are typically dirt and sod structures, usually having the interior lined with clay and either baked or sun dried. In drier climates, dirt bricks will be used instead. The shrine proper usually has only a statue and a small altar for offerings to Thuun.\nShrines to Thuun Calx are typically very small fortresslike structures, rarely more than 30 feet on a wall. The buildings tend to be very boxlike in shape, with solid roofs and narrow windows; inside, a statue of Thuun is usually raised by a stone pedestal, with an altar by his feet for offerings.\nShrines to Thuun Ferrum are typically built inside larger structures - especially caves and mines - with the blessed ground marked by an iron fence. The shrine itself is often made from metal, including the altar, but the particular alloys chosen vary based on what is available.\nShrines to Thuun Crystallus are typically built near flat, sandy locations are are built from glass brick. Inside, the shrine resembles a shrine to Thuun Calx, except that these are much rarer, due to the expensive building materials.\nShrines to Thuun Oleum are small, round structures usually built with their floors a few feet below the surrounding ground. The walls and floor are painted with pitch, and oil often sits in a bowl near the entrance, which is used to annoint faithful members as they enter the shrine.\n\n=Praying to Thuun=\nPrayers to Thuun are usually prayers for strength, in that Thuun's philosophy resists the notion that special intervention is needed in most situations; the church's common advice is "keep trying," with failures explained away as lacking dedication or, more rarely, lacking sense.\nTypically, one who believes his or her dedication to a concept is beginning to waver will travel to a shrine most closely associated with whatever is proving difficult and will pray to Thuun there. Offerings are usually monetary; however, Thuun will accept sacrafices of birds and priestesses of Sylahisi when they are available.\nThe faithful, when coming to pray, will usually meet a priest there and explain the problems, to which the priest will usually respond by drawing a line on the person's forehead with oil and saying to remain vigilant. However, if a situation sounds truly doomed, the priest may say that the person is released from obligation, and such is seen as a sign that Thuun will allow the task to be abandoned.\n\n=Attitudes Toward Other Gods=\nRaltonin is generally ignored by Thuun in most respects. Some of Raltonin's values are in line with Thuun's, but the church isn't seen as having any particular influence on Thuun.\nIshania is often seen as a force that can build upon wonderful and valid things that build families, but will often complain about the church's stances on most everything else.\nCaralil is generally regarded with some suspicion. Though the church of Thuun will typically see value in the artistic creations of Caralil's faithful, the churches have enough ideological differences to make Thuun at least defensive.\nBazzurdin is officially an ally to Thuun, and the two will work together whenever the opportunity presents, though the churches are not linked well enough to accept extreme inconvenience to defend one another.\nDopumeh is generally seen as being a nonentity. Their views on the lack of permanence of the world will often cause the two churches to debate, but Dopumeh's church has too little power for most of Thuun's faithful to see them as a threat.\nTywekia is generally called an enemy, but not with the kind of ferocity that Thuun calls Sylahisi an enemy. Tywekia's philosophy seems to actively seek to undermine what Thuun stands for, though, and his church will strike at Tywekia whenever the opportunity presents.\nGarshwynn is usually seen as an ingnorable inconvenience to Thuun. Though the churches share many values, Garshwynn's harsh meritocracy strikes most of Thuun's clergy as counterproductive, creating a kind of management that simply isn't needed for people to thrive.\nLyca is usually acknowledged as having a kind of value, in that people must be toughened up to keep the unwavering dedication required for survival, but is also not seen as so vital to be worth helping if her church is in trouble.\nPazunish is usually treated with suspicion or hostility; though Thuun's church does agree that the weak do, indeed, die (and that they perhaps should), they usually view the decision of humans to inflict such as wasteful: the small products of a weak man's work is better than the non-product of a dead man's work.\nKarn is usually largely ignored; though fire - and thus Karn - is seen as useful in many places, Thuun has few reasons to ally with Karn or to harm her.\nSylahisi is Thuun's hated enemy, whose clergy are constantly and methodically hunted by Thuun's in aggressive campaigns to stamp out the church. Though Thuun's clergy acknowledge a minimal ideological difference, they often feel compelled to respond to generations of violence advocated by Sylahisi's church.\nUashyl is usually largely ignored; though water - and thus Uashyl - is seen as useful in many places, Thuun has few reasons to ally with Uashyl or to harm her.\n\n=Taboos=\nMeetings in shrines of Thuun - even secular meetings - are seen as religious obligations, and are thus blasphemous to miss.\nPeople entering a shrine of Thuun may not wipe their feet or shake out their shoes. If there is something that requires removal, it is to be done outside of the temple.\nIt is blasphemous to sacrafice any creature with hair or fur to Thuun. Priestesses of Sylahisi are shaved or flayed before being offered at a shrine.\nIt is said to invite a curse to break a promise in sight of a shrine of Thuun.\nThe same curse is invited when making a false promise in sight of a shrine of Thuun.\n\n=Holy Days=\nThuun has a holy day on the night of every full moon, when the followers of the faith come to the shrines of Thuun to renew vows and promises. Though not every member of a congregation renews a vow on these nights, all generally attend, and special attention is usually given to those who have reached significant time markers in their obligations -- usually people who have worked at a single job or remained married for decades.\n\n=Church Activities=\nThuun's church is largely concerned with the destruction of Sylahisi's and the maintenance of itself. Though Thuun is not especially poor, as his church is fairly widespread among less-developed portions of the world, his priests are most comfortable when they have a substantial "nest egg" to absorb unexpected costs. Thuun's churches are listed as one of the ideal targets for grand and skillful robbers as a result, and the church thus often expands into the realm of trap making -- something that it just as often learns to leverage in its war against Sylahisi.
14011|Tywekia is the goddess of magic and prophecy, worshipped mostly by the particularly-ambitious.\n\nTywekia is most commonly associated with the virtue of wisdom.\n\nTywekia is typically portrayed in abstraction; she is believed by her followers to embody chaos, entropy, and knowledge. When personified, she is generally shown as having long and wildly-curly violet hair, often laced with gemstones and exotic flowers. She is just as frequently shown as a pattern in the sky or a feminine reflection in a pond; occasionally, she is even shown as male.\n\nTywekia teaches that the world is fundamentally absurd, and thus fundamentally flawed. She teaches that the only thing in the world that any mortal can hope to grasp is the sense of self, and any sense of self that is derived from outside of the self will be just as absurd and flawed as the world it is taken from. Though she is welcoming and accepting of those who reach opposing conclusions through introspection and meditation, she is scornful of those who reach conclusions -- even those sympathetic to her own teachings -- by study and indoctrination.\n\nHowever, the same faith asserts that there is a state of being that exists after one gains the complete sense and mastery of self, in which one begins to grasp the world, despite its absurdity. The church can provide no names of people who have achieved this - save Tywekia - but the most common belief is that it masquerades as insanity, and the generic "thousand wise men" is applied to refer to all of the unrecorded people who have gained mastery of the self.\n\nTywekia's church is, understandably, small.\n\n=Aspects of Tywekia=\nTywekia's church does not divide Tywekia into aspects, as many churches do. They claim that the essence of Tywekia is left to its natural obscurity, as such is a lesson on the futility of trying to understand the world. To Tywekia's church, she is chaos, order, creation, entropy, and revealed truth -- and at the same time she is not, but without her, her church insists that there would be no way to know, and it would be as good as nonexistant.\n\n=Temples=\nTywekia's temples vary significantly in form from region to region. Most temples focus on the concept of knowledge and the concept of self-discovery, and they thus tend to have things to facilitate as much, such as rooms set aside for meditation and, occasionally, sensory deprivation; Tywekia's association with divination and prophecy also lend her temples to having divining pools and mirrors. The only feature that is constant is that all temples of Tywekia attempt to amass libraries, though the contents of these libraries are typically meant to highlight the shortcomings of scholarship and more organized churches, rather than as resources for any kind of student. The selected works are, thus, quite different.\n\n=Praying to Tywekia=\nUnlike the other gods, few faithful will pray to Tywekia on special occasions or to ask for assistance. However, Tywekia's church asserts that only she is of an apporpriate state of mind to gain any knowledge outside of herself, and prayers are offered to Tywekia to ask for knowledge and foresight: an effort to gain glimpses into the future to help manage the brutal physicality of living. Most commonly, valuables will be offered to Tywekia during such prayers, with ivory and pearls being the most-favored sacrafices.\n\n=Attitudes Toward Other Gods=\nTywekia's philosophy prevents her church from holding official stances toward the other churches. However, there is a pattern among her followers of seeing Caralil, Pazunish, and Sylahisi's churches in sympathetic lights - in view of their focus upon the freedom, dignity, and adaptability, respectively. While they would generally think - but never say - that the other beliefs are less valid, they would cite that their values are the least likely to prevent others from gaining the kind of enlightenment they seek. Similarly, many of the worshippers would hold a special distaste - again unspoken - toward the churches of Raltonin, Bazzurdin, and Garshwynn, as those churches' teachings include the assertion of an absolute truth (Bazzurdin's especially) which they demand that all in their influence submit to. In debates, Tywekians will typically ask lawful faiths what would happen if they were wrong, to which the lawful faiths respond that they are certain they are not.\n\n=Taboos=\nIt is considered blasphemous to preach Tywekia's teachings.\nIt is considered blasphemous to claim her beliefs to be superior to any other deity's\nIt is seen as in poor taste to speak of Tywekia's teachings without being asked about them.\nIt is seen as in poor taste to restrict the information available to another person.\nIt is seen as criminal to restrict another person's intellectual freedom.\n\n=Holy Days=\nTywekia holds no holy days, as her church asserts them to be fundamentally flawed expressions of faith.
14012|Uashyl is the goddess of water, worshipped widely among trival and herding cultures.\n\nUashyl is most commonly associated with the virtue of patience.\n\nUashyl is depicted in artwork as alternately a nymph, a siren, and a mermaid. She is rarely clothed, and rarely makes an effort to cover herself in these depictions. While artists typically do not portray her in any particularly lewd positions, she is said to have no sense of shame, and is thus also shown as making no special effort to be "decent."\n\nUashyl teaches that life should be fashioned after the patterns of water. Though the metaphor of water as it is poured into containers appears, stressing the importance of adaptability, the faith more frequently focuses on water as it appears in nature, where it reshapes the land both by carving niches through it and by fostering life, which reshapes land for the water. Followers are taught to respect - and sometimes fear - water, as it is just as easily a force of life as death, but the advice for day to day living is upon action: shifting and adapting when it is necessary, but always finding a way to impact one's surroundings.\n\nUashyl's worshippers tend to be good, due to pleasant relations with - and some influence from - Ishanian religion. While the deity has few stories of standing for anything beyond her rivalry with Karn, her church regularly makes stands against the use of undead and for the quality and dignity of sentient life.\n\n=Aspects of Uashyl=\nUsashyl has six aspects, which recieve equal attention from Uashyl's clergy. Laypeople who worship Uashyl show a clear preference for Purgo and Colo, and many shrines and temples thus place a focus on these more popular portrayals of the goddess.\nIn the worship of Uashyl, fresh and salt water have different associations: fresh water is typically associated with Uashyl Purgo, Colo, Cerno, and Dissolutio. Salt water is associated with Uashyl Obruo and Intertio.\n  Uashyl Purgo is the personification of water as it is used to clean. She is a squelcher of disease and a recycler of soiled goods. She is typically portrayed as a thin young woman with long blue hair, which turns to water at its edges -- she often uses this water to wash either a child or a sword in such pieces.\n  Uashyl Obruo is the personification of death caused by water; she is spoken of as the destroyer of the church's enemies and the punisher of apostates. She is portrayed as an unhealthily-thin siren of pale skin and midnight blue hair, typically beckoning toward viewers.\n  Uashyl Intertio is the personification of destruction by flooding or waves. She is the toppler of civilizations and the clearer of cities, credited with the responsibility to remove those places that are unhealthy for the world. She is typically shown as having a watery and amorphous lower body, with a torso that gains shape over her midsection. In paintings, she is shown as being larger than cities; in sculpture, she is either human sized or somehow carved into the structure of the temple.\n  Uashyl Colo is the personification of nurturing and cultivation by water. She gives drink to the parched and rain to crops, and is the builder of civilizations. In paintings, she is most often a woman showing through a rain cloud; in sculpture, she is usually a nymph who sits with knees together and ankles crossed, propped up on one arm and extending a cup - which can be taken from her hand - with the other.\n  Uashyl Cerno is the personification of water as it sifts and separates, especially when seeking valuables. She is a finder of treasures and an explorer of "unreachable" space; occasionally, she is also a metaphor for sex. She is portrayed alternately as a puddle flowing into cracks and a child or adolescent with an expression of curiosity or excitement.\n  Uashyl Dissolutio is the personification of water as it alters the land. She is the planter of forests - but not crops - and the carver of canyons - but not oceans, which are said to be the result of her filling dents and chasms made by others. She is portrayed as muscular, but voluptuous, woman, with large or callused hands.\nUashyl accepts animal sacrifices with some regularity, as well as sacrafices of clerics and druids - but not laypeople - of Karn. Sacrifices are restrained, typically by tieing, and drowned. Animals are pickled or frozen, never cooked, and very small quantities are eaten by all attending. People are dumped in bodies of salt water, with limbs tied as if in a burial.\n\n=Temples=\nTemples of Uashyl are always built on some sort of natural water source, and integrate the water into the temple for some sort of effect. Temples built on hot springs are typically flooded waist-deep with the water and dedicated to Uashyl Cerno. They are often settings for celebrations of sexuality and community; they often attract a community to celebrate, even if built in very remote locations.\nTemples that are built on smaller rivers typically look for a hill; an entrance is notched from the hill, with the river routed to fall over the doorway. Such temples are typically dedicated to Uashyl Purgo.\nTemples build on large rivers are usually large stone buildings erected in the middle of the river. They normally require that all but pregnant women swim to the temple; however, their dedication to Uashyl Colo makes such temples a destination for women who are expecting children soon. They are typically ferried to the temple; it is seen as good fortune to help row such a ferry, and laymen are often invited to assist.\nTemples built in harbors are typically shaped to look as buildings at the end of piers. They are always built low enough in the water that high tide floods the first few inches of the temple, and salt or sand often accumulates in these temples as a result. They are dedicated to Uashyl Obruo, often with a caged pit descending into the water, to which all seating faces, used for sacrafices.\nTemples built on rocky or unprotected shores typically look for a cliff or an outcropping; the temple is carved from the cliff and its front wall given many arrow-slit-sized notches, which allow spray from the ocean to enter when waves hit nearby. Such temples often develop a thick, salty crust; the crust that forms on the altar is most often used to create holy symbols, but the rest remains untouched. Such temples are dedicated to Uashyl Intertio.\nTemples built in canyons typically look for a narrow portion, and build the temple to touch both walls of the canyon and span the river that created it, especially if a section of white water can be found. A single, narrow bridge is built in the temple of the waters are too deep or too rough to wade through, but it is generally called more holy to attempt to wade or swim the waters if one is physically able. Such temples are often dedicated to Uashyl Dissolutio.\n\n=Praying to Uashyl=\nPraying to Uashyl typically involves some sort of monetary offering, usually left in a collection dish or, in the case of temples to Uashyl Cerno, dropped on the (flooded) floor. While any aspect of Uashyl can be prayed to in any of her temples and have it be appropriate, it is generally preferred that a worshipper at least seek the appropriate variety of water, if not a temple dedicated to the appropriate aspect.\nUashyl Purgo is prayed to most often when one wishes to start a new life. They come to the temple and ask to wash themselves of a previous life and are either submerged in water or walk through a waterfall. The moment of emerging from the water is said to be when the blessing takes place, and one is often guided by a priestess for the act.\nUashyl Obruo is prayed to most often when attempting to curse or damn an enemy. Laymen typically express their grievance to Uashyl in the presence of a priest or priestess, who is given the judgment of how to respond. If a priestess with access to [i]Bestow Curse[/i] is available, such is the preferred method of punishing those that are deemed deserving. Rarely, killing will be thought appropriate, and the temple will either drown the person - especially if the punishment is for apostasy - or hire a knifeman to see the deed done.\nUashyl Intertio is prayed to most often before battles with elemental forces. Soldiers in the battle gather together for the prayer, join hands, pray to be the force that smothers or washes over their foes. Those who wish to win a battle against a secular force are most often sent to the temple of another god, depending on the preferences of the region.\nUashyl Colo is prayed to in the spring, in hopes that crops will be made fertile and rains will come to help  them grow. Single worshippers will arrive with an offering of silver and beg that it be used to hold the rain clouds together.\nUashyl Cerno is prayed to before treasure hunts or exploration. The offering for such a prayer is meager, but a tithe of a tenth of the value of whatever is found is expected if it is successful.\nUashyl Dissolutio is prayed to - in combination with Thuun - before breaking ground for a new building or, especially, a new town. The prayer is given by all involved, and a flagstone is usually given as offering, in addition to the usual monetary offering. Typically, Uashyl is prayed to second in such a venture; they ask that water continue to run to the site and that crops continue to grow and be bountiful.\n\n=Attitudes Toward Other Faiths=\nRaltonin is regarded with suspicion, but not outright hostility. The church sees the religion as a threat, in that the cities they build and support often taint and pollute water, but the church is willing to investigate to be sure beforehand.\nIshania is technically an ally, but the two churches obvliously work together as acts of opportunism. Communication is friendly when it happens, but it typically happens when one party wants something.\nCaralil is given mildly friendly treatment, due to his role in the creation of nymphs and nixies, but conflicting ideologies keep the two faiths distant.\nBazzurdin is rarely given much thought; they are, in a very roundabout way, thought of as friends, in that they are the friends of friends, but the two churches rarely get along when they attempt to deal with one another.\nDopumeh is seen as a worthwhile friend, but not necessarily an ally. Dopumeh is thought of more as a younger sibling who needs to be watched over, because he can not take care of himself. The church accepts, but does not expect, aid from Dopumeh's church, and tends to condescend somewhat in interactions with them.\nTywekia is rarely given much thought; they are, in a very roundabout way, thought of as friends, in that they are the friends of friends, but the two churches rarely get along when they attempt to deal with one another.\nGarshwynn is generally seen as competition, primarily because of the Garshwynnian view of property. The church of Uashyl will play by Garshwynn's rules when they believe they can win, because it often means a financial boost, but will abandon them when necessary to outcompete them.\nLyca is treated as something of an enemy, due to the church's passing alliance with Karn. However, scholars in both faiths recognize similarities in dogma, and can discuss them productively; once out of those discussions, however, both sides generally accept that they must be enemies to keep their more-valued alliances.\nPazunish is generally stopped when opportunities present themselves. Though Pazunish's church does not directly blaspheme against Uashyl's, Uashyl sees their policy of culling the herd as a perversion of the ideal separations of weak and strong through natural disaster. The Pazunites are, thus, seen as tampering with Uashyl's vision, which should be combated. However, they don't appear to be doing it especially "wrongly," beyond being overzealous, so Uashyl's church does not pursue them with vigor.\nThuun is a kind of ally, in that Uashyl's and Thuun's domains are seen to be complimentary, and communities based around both faiths often have members travel between the two. However, formal alliances are rare, and typically only occur when both churches are directly threatened by a similar force.\nKarn is Uashyl's nemesis. The two fight one another when opportunities present themselves, and each gives her followers the power to destroy the elementals of the other, often with the result of escalating the hostilities between the two.\nSylahisi is a kind of ally, in that Uashyl's and Sylahisi's domains are seen to be complimentary, and communities based around both faiths often have members travel between the two. However, formal alliances are rare, and typically only occur when both churches are directly threatened by a similar force.\n\n=Taboos=\nIt is blasphemous to wear armor inside a temple of Uashyl, with exception granted to guards who are on duty. Changing rooms are usually provided, but armored visitors are expected to change even if they are not. Guards are also expected to change as part of the ceremony of changing the guards; most wear decorated loin cloths under their armor, so they may remove their armor without revealing too much of themselves.\nAny person whom is given spells by Uashyl is expected to be nude within the temple. Exceptions are made for rare cases - such as nymphs, who might harm visitors by being bare - but such people are expected to be as minimally clothed as possible.\nIt is blashpemous to avoid any water sprayed or falling at an entrance to a temple. If it sprays or falls in such a way that it misses a person, he or she is expected to move so that she is hit by it.\nWeddings are never carried out inside temples of Uashyl, and most regions deem wedding vows to be suspended when within a temple. However, using the temple as an excuse to cheat on wedding vows is seen as distasteful.\nIt is blasphemous to carry fire into the temple of Uashyl. If light is required, phosphorescent mosses or alchemical sources of light are preferred.\n\n=Holy Days=\nThere are four holy days in Uashyl's calendar:\nThe Day of Freezing: Is held on the winter solstice. This is when times of war are started by Uashyl's faithful, as it is when Karn is weakest. Such warlike periods are usually opened by a day of meditation and prayer, especially beneath waterfalls or on rough seaside cliffs.\nThe Day of Thawing: Is held on the spring equinox. The bounty and generosity of rivers and seas is celebrated on this day, which often begins with a feast of seafood before turning to an orgy. Such celebrations prefer a temple to Uashyl Cerno.\nThe Day of Drought: Is held on the summer solstice. This is a time of pennance and repentance for Uashyl's faithful, and usually consists of fasting during the day and praying. However, if it rains on this day, the faithful drink heavily, play music, and tell stories. The fasting remains, often resulting in most of the faithful being unconscious before sundown.\nThe Day of Returning Rains: Is held on the autumnal equinox. The bounty and generosity of irrigated crops is celebrated on this day, which is often centered on the consumption of gourds: especially pumpkins and squash. Fruits often make appearances, depending on availability, especially peaches, oranges, lemons, and limes. Wine and grain spirits are often drunk on this day, but it is bad form to get drunk. It is, similarly, bad form to eat meat on this day.\n\n=Church Activities=\nThe church of Uashyl often struggles to support itself; its heavy focus on the natural world often alienates masons and architects, making the building of temples -- of which Uashyl seems to require many -- a very expensive task that involves little to no donated skilled labor. As such, the church is notorious for its money-making schemes and for tagging along with Ishania's ambitious quests in hopes to profit from it.\nDuring the winter, the church often more actively seeks followers of Karn, trying to capture at least one for each temple to Obruo.
14013|Godtouched is a euphemism used to refer to portions of land that have been deeply scarred by magic, or the sickness developed from continued presence in such regions.\n\nGodtouched regions are usually chracterized by struggling life. Trees and grasses often die, and only small, hardy plants-- particularly lichens, fungi, and mosses-- occupy the space. Animals tend to be ill, and some demonstrate unusual characteristics: large size, extra or missing limbs, misshapen teeth, and patchy fur are common. Animals that drift out of the godtouched region don't generally "get better," and most die considerably younger than animals not from the godtouched region.\n\nPeople who develop the godtouched illness show variable symptoms. The most common is simply a sudden lack of ability to fight off other infections, resulting in a person who seems to catch all sorts of other illnesses, when other healthy people aren't particularly affected. However, particularly-damaged regions are associated with vomiting and headaches. People in the area when spectacular acts of magic fail catastrophically also often lose their hair and show burns and purple splotches on their skin where it was exposed to the magic. Few die directly from the godtouched illness, but prospects aren't very good once other infections get a foothold.\n\nThe term is usually explained as the godtouched land and people being a reminder against hubris-- that those who seek to touch the gods are touched back, to the detriment of themselves and everyone nearby.